First UK death linked to 'zombie' drug xylazin  There have been warnings in the US about its flesh-eating properties and role in 7% of fatal overdoses.  The death of a 43-year-old man is the first in the UK to be linked to the "zombie"  drug xylazine. It is used to sedate farm animals.Experts have warned the substance - which carries a flesh-eating risk - is"widespread"in the UK and can be fatal.It is also known as "tranq" or"tranq dope", which refers to the sedative qualities, and is used on its own or mixed with cocaine and heroin.  "The most important thing is to not use these substances," the spokesperson told the PA news agency."This comes at a time when there are concerns about the use of drugs such as cocaine and heroin. It's important not to make the mistake of thinking 'well, it's not a drug'.  But is it legal for vets to use xylazine?No - xylazine was classed as an illegal drug by the Government when it was first used in the 1970s. It was removed from the list of Schedule 1 controlled drugs in 2020 after evidence emerged that it is safe and effective to use in veterinary animals.  It is the only sedative-anaesthetic listed in schedule 1. Schedule 1 drugs include substances such as cannabis and cocaine.A spokesperson for the Department for Health and Social Care told PA:"There is no reason to believe there are significant quantities in the UK, or other countries. This is an unusual chemical which is difficult to distinguish from common drugs that might be taken. It is not a Class A drug. We have no information that there is a large amount in circulation in the UK.  "It is very unlikely to be introduced into the UK as a recreational drug as it does not have recreational value. We remain vigilant but are not aware of any substantial problems here."  <strong>UK death linked to ‘zombie drug’ found for first time in UK</strong>The first UK death linked to a drug often known as ‘the zombie drug’ was announced on Wednesday. It has been found in the UK for the first time – after initially being discovered in the US.  <strong>UK death linked to ‘zombie drug’ found in first case in the UK</strong>A man has become the first person in the UK to die as a result of the drug “zombie drug,” previously unknown in the country. The drug is known as xylazine and, in the US, has been linked to more than 700 deaths. In its first known case in the UK, the man, thought to be in his 40s, died after taking it. He also reportedly had a history of drug and alcohol abuse.  <strong>UK health regulator clears US 'zombie drug' xylazine</strong>Britain’s medicines regulator has approved the use of an animal sedative in human medicine, clearing the way for it to be used to help manage severe and chronic pain.  <strong>How ‘zombie drug’ found in one US state has spread to 18 states in just two months</strong>As the number of xylazine cases in America grows, officials say the drug has spread from a 200-mile radius to 2,000 miles as the US battles an overdose crisis. Xylazine is an illegal drug in the UK, but in states where it’s legal to prescribe it in vets, it’s been used to treat chronic pain.  <strong>How xylazine spread as the US battles an overdose crisis</strong>As the number of xylazine cases in America grows, officials say the drug has spread from a 200-mile radius to 2,000 miles as the US battles an overdose crisis. 🤮  <strong>UK death linked to ‘zombie drug’ found in first case in the UK</strong>A man has become the first person in the UK to die as a result of the drug “zombie drug,” previously unknown in the country. The drug is known as xylazine and, in the US, has been linked to more than 700 deaths. In its first known case in the UK, the man, thought to be in his 40s, died after taking it. He also reportedly had a history of drug and alcohol abuse.  UK deaths and 'zombie drug' found in first UK case Experts have warned the substance - which carries a flesh-eating risk - is "widespread" in the UK and can be fatal.Image: Reuters UK health officials have confirmed the first death in Britain linked to a "zombie drug" often known as the "zombie drug" or "tranq", an opioid usually used in veterinary medicine.It has been found in the UK for the first time – after initially being discovered in the US.The UK’s medicines regulator has given the go-ahead for a veterinary sedative known in the US as the “zombie drug” to be used as a painkiller in humans, clearing the way for it to be used to help manage severe and chronic pain.  It is also known as "tranq" or "tranq dope", which refers to the sedative qualities, and is used on
Russia and Ukraine storm leaves two million without power  Hurricane winds and heavy flooding batter southern Russia and Ukrainian regions seized by Moscow.  In Russia's Black Sea port of Sochi, big waves have been battering the city's seafront  Russia says hurricane winds and heavy flooding have left about 1.9 million  residents in more than a dozen regions without power as a powerful storm swept through southern parts of the country and Ukraine, where Russia-installed officials reported extensive damage and flooding in two of four regions it controls.  Russia's emergencies ministry says about 331,600 residents have been left without power in 53 settlements in the southern Krasnodar region after "violent storms" with wind speeds exceeding 180 km/h on Sunday.  The ministry said on Monday that damage to infrastructure and agriculture has been estimated at 100 million rubles ($1.7 million) in that region.  The ministry said about 400,000 residents have been left without power in the neighbouring Krasnodar region, including in the city of Gagra, which has suffered extensive flooding. That number is expected to climb.  It said in a separate statement that more than 230,000 residents in the Russian regions of Rostov, Stavropol, and Krasnobrsk are without power after "violent wind and storm surges" battered those cities and other parts of the south.  In Ukraine, officials from the partially Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia region said 13,000 residents had been left without power in that region. They said the storm had uprooted trees and damaged electricity substations.  An official from the partially Russian-occupied Donetsk region told Russia's Interfax news agency that the region had suffered damage to infrastructure from storms, including downed trees and a gas main, along with flooding, without giving further details.  In the Ukrainian government-controlled region of Kherson, where Russian forces retreated in mid-June in the face of Ukrainian advances, officials said 17 people were hurt, including four people who were trapped for hours on rooftops of houses near the flood-ravaged riverbank.
Watch elderly man air rescued after cliff fall  Authorities responded to a hiker who had fallen from a cliff next to the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco.  The San Francisco Fire Department and the California Highway Patrol Golden Gate Division Air Operations unit responded to a call about a hiker who fell from a cliff next to the Golden Gate  Bridge in San Francisco, officials said Saturday. The hiker was airlifted away in stable condition by the helicopter that hovered off San Francisco's Aquatic Park, according to a social media post by the Golden Gate Division.  A post from the CHP Golden Gate Division said that no other individuals were involved in the fall, and that CHP officers investigated the incident.Watch the full video here:  What a beautiful sight! How did he find his way off the cliff in the first place?  <strong>San Francisco residents evacuated as crews monitor hot spot in apartment building fire</strong>Several residents have been evacuated and at least one has been taken to the hospital as crews monitor a hot spot at the bottom of a partially collapsed apartment building in San Francisco's Bernal Heights district Saturday night, NBC Bay Area's Tom Costello reports.  <strong>Watch a car crash into San Jose house after driver crashes, slides into home</strong>A 39-year-old man was arrested after a driver crashed into a home Friday evening, authorities said.  <strong>'This is just horrific': Watch the moments officers rescued a cat trapped in a San Francisco apartment</strong>San Francisco Police Officer Nick O'Grady and his K9 partner, Officer Lilo, were out for a routine call on Friday night when they were called to a 'trapped cat' in the middle of the street. He's a hero. I thought he was the one who fell off the cliff  <strong>San Francisco Police rescue cat from street, reunite him with family</strong>The cat had been trapped in a box under some construction equipment that was placed there by a construction company to put out for the city to pick up.  <strong>Watch: Man falls off cliff near Golden Gate Bridge and is airlifted out of San Francisco</strong>Officials airlifted a man from the Golden Gate Bridge on Saturday after he fell from a cliff.
Dozens killed as Israeli strikes hit southern Gaza refuge area  Some 600,000 Palestinians are sheltering in the south after an Israeli order to evacuate the north.  More than 600,000 displaced people are sheltering in Khan Younis and other southern communities  More than  600,000 Palestinians are sheltering in Khan Younis and other southern communities in an area on the southern front, where Israel fired shells last night, according to the Palestinian Red Crescent Authority.  Earlier today, the Gaza Strip was hit by dozens of airstrikes in the south, including a strike in Khan Younis, which led to the death of a child under the age of six. According to the Palestinian Medical Committee, four others were injured.  Some of these missiles are said to be "missiles".  The Palestinians who are in the southern areas of the Strip are said to have been taken out of harm's way by the UN agency in this area.  An aid convoy of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has also arrived in the area.  This is what the UN has said:  UN Gaza: We are ready to assist Palestinians in shelters who have been displaced. We have already provided emergency and basic items to more than 5,000 people.  We will increase the supply of medical supplies and food.  Meanwhile, the Israeli army has confirmed that its soldiers have come under fire.  "Last night, Israeli forces came under fire. A total of 600,000 displaced people and vulnerable populations in the southern part of the Strip are at risk," it said.  There were dozens of airstrikes across the Gaza Strip on Tuesday night, and more than 600,000 Palestinian civilians in 35 shelters. These are the latest images of the scenes of destruction and burning:  #PrayForGaza https://t.co/4l8Y69g04w
rianna Ghey's death has left massive hole, says family  Brianna Ghey, 16, who was stabbed to death in a park is described as "fearless and one of a kind".  Two teenagers have been arrested over Brianna Ghey's death  A 16- year-old girl who was stabbed to death in a park has been named as Brianna Ghey.  Two boys, aged 15 and 16, arrested for Brianna Ghey murder  Two teenage boys have been arrested on suspicion of murder after a 16-year-old girl was found dead in a park in Warrington, Cheshire, police say.  Man arrested in connection with Brianna Ghey stabbing  Police have arrested a 35-year-old man over the death of Brianna Ghey, a 16-year-old who was found stabbed at a park in Warrington, Cheshire.  Police hunt for pair wanted over stabbing death of Brianna Ghey  Police are continuing to search for two men over the death of Brianna Ghey who was found stabbed to death in a park in Warrington, Cheshire.  Police investigate stab wound to girl, 17, in street in Nottingham  Police investigating a stabbing in Nottingham on Friday night are searching for two men and a woman.  10-year-old boy stabbed in east Belfast  Police in Belfast are investigating a report of a 10-year-old boy being stabbed in the neck during an assault.  Detectives appeal for witnesses over knife attack on teenager  Police in Scotland have released CCTV images of two men they are hoping to trace after a teenager was stabbed and robbed in Edinburgh on Sunday.  Mother whose six-year-old daughter died from stab wound calls for action  The mother of a six-year-old girl who died after a stabbing attack outside their home in Wales, is calling for action against dangerous people in the community.  Schoolgirls stabbed in London 'were targeted'  Two young girls have been stabbed in separate attacks in London, police have said.  Mum's agony as daughters, 10 and 13, fight for life after stabbing  Two sisters, aged 10 and 13, have been fighting for their lives in hospital after a stabbing attack outside their home in Cardiff, Wales.  Boy, 15, suffers stab wound to leg during London Tube attack  A 15-year-old boy has been treated in hospital for a wound to his leg caused by a knife attack in London.  Boy charged with murder after attack on 18-year-old student in London  The boy, 15, has appeared in court charged with murder over a fatal attack on a 18-year-old student in north London.  Man, 29, found with stab wound to leg in east London  Police are hunting for the driver of a van after a man was found with a stab wound to his leg in east London.
Woman dies after falling from mobility scooter  Police are investigating after a woman in her 60s fell into the road and died from head injuries.  The woman was riding along Alfreton Road when she fell off her mobility scooter  Officers are investigating after a woman in her 60s fell off her mobility scooter  and died from head injuries, Derbyshire Police have confirmed.  The pedestrian was travelling along Alfreton Road, Mansfield, when she fell off her mobility scooter shortly before 3pm on Saturday, June 15.  Police cordoned off a section of the road during the investigation, with a number of crime scene investigators at the scene.  The woman was taken to hospital by ambulance but died from her injuries on Sunday, June 16.  A police spokesman said: “Derbyshire police are continuing to investigate a fatal road traffic collision on Alfreton Road on Saturday June 15 involving a mobility scooter rider.  “A 60-year-old woman from the Mansfield area sadly passed away as a result of her injuries on Monday June 17 at 6.45am.  “The road closure which was in place following the incident on the afternoon of June 15 was removed on Tuesday evening following a thorough investigation.”
icola Bulley: Roads closed in search for missing mother  Police divers and a helicopter are seen near to where the mother-of-two disappeared three weeks ago.  Nicola Bulley was last seen during a riverside walk on 27 January  Roads have been closed near to the area where missing mother Nicola Bulley  vanished.  Police confirmed 100 search teams are still looking for the 45-year-old.  The search spans two weeks, stretching over over 80 miles from Skipton to Morecambe - with around 200 officers and police divers searching for Ms Bulley.  The last confirmed sighting of the missing mother was on 27 January at around 9.20am near the River Wyre after dropping her two daughters off at school.  Ms Bulley’s partner Paul Ansell has since said he is still ‘keeping the faith’, as he continues to provide updates on social media.  Ms Bulley disappeared while walking the family springer spaniel, Willow, along the River Wyre, between the St Michael’s Bridge and Garstang Road, with the dog still on a lead.  The public have been sharing ideas on social media with how to try and help find her, but the local police team has warned the general public against getting involved in the search themselves.  <strong>How do I help with the search for missing Nicola Bulley?</strong>  The police have said they will not be giving out details on the search for Ms Bulley, and have issued an appeal against making suggestions on social media.  A spokesperson for Lancashire Police told ITV News, “We have a dedicated and committed group of officers and volunteers who have been working hard to ensure that Nicola is found safe and well and we understand how this has affected so many people, and how much everyone wants to help in any way they can.  “We understand that everyone has the best intentions in mind, and we will not give out any details on the search itself because it would prevent us from doing our jobs and undermine the investigation.  “We are appealing for people to be patient while we continue to try and locate Nicola.”  <strong>The search teams</strong>  <strong>Police</strong>  The police divers and specialist underwater search team are led by the local Force lead for underwater search and recovery operations and the force lead for serious crime with support from underwater specialists.  <strong>Search teams</strong>  There are 100 search teams across the force, including trained volunteers. The teams are supported by volunteers from the Yorkshire Dales Search and Rescue Team.  <strong>Police helicopter</strong>  Police helicopter from the Lancashire Constabulary and National Police Air Service have been involved, supporting the search team with aerial reconnaissance to assist in the search operation.
Putin and Wagner boss Prigozhin: How a long friendship turned ugly  It all began in St Petersburg when state security services mingled with the criminal underworld.  "I had known Prigozhin for a very long time, since the 1990s," Vladimir Putin recalled this week  Theirs  was a unique friendship – but their relationship had fallen into disrepair.  The two men had a long history.  Putin, who had been a KGB operative, had used Prigozhin's catering business to serve food and drinks at many of his parties and banquets  He had also met his future wife at a Prigozhin event.  But, in recent years, Prigozhin had become one of Vladimir Putin's most trusted aides.  "Prigozhin is now one of those, in my opinion, close people whom one can always rely on," Putin said.  Their closeness was apparent.  Prigozhin's Wagner Group mercenaries were sent to Ukraine in 2022, with Putin saying they were fighting "on the side of peace".  Wagner was later revealed to be a military contractor with little real military experience, and the Kremlin later distanced itself from the group's actions.  In June 2023, Prigozhin had a spat with the Russian military and stormed to St Petersburg.  He had been angered by the low number of Wagner prisoners recruited into his forces and, on social media, the Wagner chief called out the military for lying to him.  It sparked a bitter row, and Prigozhin accused the Russian military of waging a "hybrid war" against Wagner.  Prigozhin ordered his men to head to the airport, where he claimed a missile had been fired at him.  He claimed that the aircraft was fired from Russia's northern Fleet  But, in a later statement, Russia's defence ministry insisted that it had not used "any weapons against Wagner".  Putin ordered Russian troops to stop Prigozhin's men and Prigozhin's mercenaries agreed to retreat and were allowed to go.  Despite that, Prigozhin had launched his own version of events, and accused the Russian president of trying to murder him.  He accused Putin of "trying to murder the country's best military commander", while also accusing the president of trying to wipe his company out.  He claimed that the "terrorist attack with air-launched missiles" had been planned for weeks – but Putin himself said that he never asked for the military to kill Prigozhin.  And earlier this year, Prigozhin published a new statement saying he had been "thrown under the wheels" by Putin.  "As a result of my actions during the so-called armed mutiny on the basis of the agreement between me and President Putin, I was thrown under the wheels of the bus.  "The president simply wanted to kill me, and he was counting on it, and I was in his way," he said.  But relations appeared to have improved, as Prigozhin had been invited to spend the night at the Kremlin  "He's no longer a threat to the president," Putin said.  "I hope this will never happen again, because when it did happen, it became very unpleasant and costly to everyone.  "I wish he never did that."  And in his own statement, Prigozhin said that he would "stop all activity of Wagner PMC in the Russian Federation".  Despite this, the Wagner chief also made reference to himself as "chef".  The end of the long relationship seemed to have come, but in the aftermath of the crash, Prigozhin's Wagner Group claimed that the plane was shot down by Ukrainian forces in order to take out Putin's old friend.  "They were shooting at Wagner, they were shooting at our planes, and in fact one of our planes was brought down," a Wagner official said  He insisted that his group had been attacked by Ukrainian forces, adding: "Ukraine has no chance of winning any war, so the question is: how will they try to make some points against their president (Vladimir Putin)?  "That is the way it is."  The Wagner chief said that, in his view, the crash was an attempt by Ukraine to wipe out his group  "I believe that the crash of the plane of Prigozhin is the beginning of the end for Ukraine, and in my opinion, they will not manage to hold on for another six months."  But Ukrainian officials insisted that there had been no Ukrainian involvement in the crash – and they criticised the Kremlin.  "We do not understand why our country must be held responsible," Ukrainian presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak told the BBC  It comes after Russia's defence ministry insisted that the Wagner boss and his close ally had been killed on board the plane.  In a statement the defence ministry said Prigozhin and "other passengers" had been killed after an explosion  "As a result of the explosion on board the business jet PK-33A in the Tver region, the entire crew of the plane was killed, and the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) is ascertaining the identity of the bodies.  "
Ukraine Eurovision act's city Ternopil attacked before performanc  Ternopil was hit by Russian missiles before Tvorchi took the stage in Liverpool, authorities say.  Tvorchi held up a sign displaying the name of their hometown while participating in the Eurovision Song Contest  The hometown of Ukraine's  Eurovision-representing duo Tvorchi came under attack by a Russian missile before their live performance.  The missile fell just 600 metres from where the group performed at the Liverpool Arena on Saturday night.  Tvorchi - consisting of Kateryna Pavlenko and Oleg Pyrozhkov - hold up a banner with the name of their hometown Ternopil before performing their entry, Heart Of Steel, in the international competition, which took place in Liverpool, England.  The group are the first Ukrainians to perform at the song contest since the war began in February 2022.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy posted on Telegram: “Congratulations to the winner and a big thank you to all our artists for their brilliant performance. I’m so proud of all of you.”  He also hailed Ternopil’s people for their spirit.  “And an even bigger thank you to Ternopil. The whole world heard you in unison: ‘Glory to Ukraine,’” he said.  Russia launched a wave of missile strikes across Ukraine shortly after the contest started.  Ternopil was attacked by a Russian missile on the night of the performance, the Ukrainian city's mayor Volodymyr Petryk said.  The city was hit by a Russian missile before Tvorchi take to the stage in Liverpool on Saturday evening.  Tvorchi said it was a "dream" to bring their country's flag to the "mainstage" at Eurovision 2023.  The city of Ternopil, which lies on the western border of the country, has been under Russian shelling in recent months and is subject to daily bombing.  Despite this, the group said they had "always dreamed of this stage".  Tvorchi said their performance, which saw the couple dance on a giant spinning wheel, was about "a united Ukraine".  "We dedicate the victory to all people in our country who keep fighting for peace and freedom," they said.  The Ukrainian duo beat out seven other acts - including Sweden, the Netherlands, Spain, Finland, Croatia, Georgia, and Portugal - and was the second favourite to win before the final started, behind Sweden.  The victory was a huge triumph for Ukraine, which hosted the 2017 contest in Kyiv but has been at the centre of a war that Russia has invaded.  After Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022, the Ukrainian national broadcaster, Ukraine TV, announced that the country’s Eurovision representative would be chosen through public vote in February.  Before the 2022 contest, 60,000 people submitted a list of up to 10 songs - the same as the number of entries for Eurovision this year.  They chose their songs through an online survey, which closed on 8 March.  The song contest will continue until 10 May.
Woman who assaulted Chipotle worker sentenced to fast food job for two month  A viral video captured the woman screaming at a Chipotle worker before throwing her food in her face.  An Ohio woman who was convicted of assault for hurling a burrito bowl at a Chipotle worker was offered an unusual way to reduce her time in jail.   The incident occurred in August, when the woman and her son threw food at an employee after waiting more than 10 minutes for their takeout order. The employee then suffered scrapes on her head and body, according to local news outlets.  "I’m done waiting. I’m done waiting," the mom yells while hurling the container.  After a video of the incident went viral, the woman apologized for her behavior and pleaded guilty to assaulting the employee.  Now, according to WJW, a judge offered the woman the option of spending her jail time working in Chipotle's Cuyahoga Falls location in exchange for writing two positive reviews about the fast food restaurant online.  According to Cuyahoga County Court of Common Pleas spokesperson Bill Cole, the offer came from a magistrate in an unrelated criminal case, but Judge Carolyn J. Edwards had agreed to accept it.  If she decides not to participate in the sentencing requirement, she could end up with more time behind bars, officials said.  "It's an interesting thing to do. That's the bottom line," said Cole. "You could see how that would appeal to a woman who had a beef at Chipotle."  Cole said the offer of two positive reviews online could have helped the woman get back on track by helping her obtain future employment.  “I’m just glad we got it out of the way. It was a good thing. We had to work with the court and the prosecutor’s office. It ended up working,” Chipotle spokesperson Chris Arnold told PEOPLE in a statement.  The woman in the viral video, Brittany Renee Wilson, later posted to Facebook that she had not yet started her sentence.  <strong>RELATED VIDEO:</strong> <strong>Mom Says She Was Wrong to Throw Food at Chipotle Employee: I'm 'Not a Monster'</strong>  "I didn't think that it would blow up like it did," Wilson told Fox 8 Cleveland. "It's the best video ever!"  Read the original article on People
Ukraine war: Defying Russian onslaught in city 'at the end of the world'  People in Bakhmut, at the epicentre of the war, live in defiance under constant Russian bombardment.  Many of those remaining in Bakhmut are elderly, like 86-year-old Anatolay, and  those who cannot escape are facing a difficult time, struggling to feed themselves and find food.A recent strike by the Russian army destroyed six houses and damaged several more, including a kindergarten and three hospitals.  The destruction is the reason some elderly people are still refusing to leave.A Ukrainian nurse, who lives in a basement shelter in Bakhmut, said she has seen a rise in the number of elderly people staying in the city.“Since the beginning of the war, the number of people leaving the city has increased,” she said.  <strong>Russia claims it is ‘neutral’ in conflict with West and does not want Ukraine to join NATO</strong>Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is ‘100 per cent confident’ the Kremlin is prepared to do more than ‘stand aside’ as Ukrainian authorities move to join NATO if Moscow loses the war I know this will never happen so it was an easy thing to say... We want our land back. How is this not in the west's interest? How much longer are we going to be told that Putin isn't the problem. Putin is the problem, he is actively trying to create a new cold war to his benefit.  <strong>Ukraine war: ‘People have lost their homes, their jobs but they have not lost their faith’</strong>Despite Russia destroying Ukraine’s biggest and most important tank factory, people believe there is hope in the war, writes the Guardian’s military correspondent  <strong>Ukraine war: Russian soldier says he has killed civilians after being told they are Ukrainian</strong>Soldiers, who are not trained as combat engineers, have been placed in positions for which they are unprepared, UK minister says  <strong>Russia-Ukraine war: UK says Russia will continue to use Ukraine to attack countries in Europe</strong>Ukraine war updates: Russia says it is 'neutral' on the question of whether Ukraine should join NATO, and that the 'West is provoking Ukraine'.  <strong>‘We are getting to see things in Russia that even we haven’t in Russia.’ A tour guide in Ukraine speaks out</strong>'Every day it gets worse. It's terrible.' This is how tour guide Anastasia Tkachuk in Ukraine describes the effect of Russia’s invasion on Russia’s citizens and her own business She used the phrase 'like a big house of cards.' Which is ironic since they’ve been destroying and rebuilding it from scratch for centuries.  Ukraine war: ‘Bakhmut has become a dead city’ ‘You can hear shelling and then in the morning there is just silence’  .Russia claims it is ‘neutral’ in conflict with West and does not want Ukraine to join NATO Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov is ‘100 per cent confident’ the Kremlin is prepared to do more than ‘stand aside’ as Ukrainian authorities move to join NATO if Moscow loses the war.Ukrainian troops stand guard outside a ruined building in Slovyansk, Ukraine, which has been the scene of fierce fighting during the conflict with Russia.Russia said today it had captured the village of Robotyne after fighting in Ukraine’s south, as Western intelligence warned Moscow was suffering a spate of battlefield defeats.  Many of those remaining in Bakhmut are elderly, like 86-year-old Anatolay, and those who cannot escape are facing a difficult time, struggling to feed themselves and find food. A recent strike by the Russian army destroyed six houses and damaged several more, including a kindergarten and three hospitals. As Lavrov spoke, the first of a planned series of NATO military exercises began at a range in Poland, which is about 100 miles from Ukraine. The destruction is the reason some elderly people are still refusing to leave. There was hope of a Ukrainian counterattack following Russia’s humiliating retreat last month from the city of Kherson in the south, but Ukraine has since been bogged down in a costly grind with heavy losses. A Ukrainian nurse, who lives in a basement shelter in Bakhmut, said she has seen a rise in the number of elderly people staying in the city. “I’ve had long chats with people in many capitals and it’s 100 per cent clear that there is a real concern and a real need to get to a diplomatic solution,” Lavrov said. “Since the beginning of the war, the number of people leaving the city has increased,” she said. “They were ordered to kill civilians,” said the soldier, speaking on condition of anonymity.  “Even when we call and invite people to leave, they don’t answer. “We believe it is Russia that is causing the most damage for the Ukrainians. A local priest told the Guardian that a church was hit by a rocket on 16 March and that worshippers from neighbouring villages had taken refuge in the church as it was being shelled.” Read more Bakhmut, which is Ukraine’s worst-hit city, sits in the eastern Donbas region and has been the focus of one of the most bloody struggles since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine began in February last year. In October alone, a report by
Rebekah Vardy trademarks the phrase Wagatha Christi  She had to pay substantial legal costs after losing her High Court libel case against Coleen Rooney.  Rebekah Vardy trademarked the phrase "Wagatha Christie" after losing her libel case against Coleen Rooney.  Vardy unsuccessfully sued Rooney at the High Court  over comments she made in October 2019 which alleged she had leaked stories about her private life to the press.  She claimed that Rooney had shared fake stories to "see which ones" were leaked to the press, but Rooney won the case.  Vardy has now registered a trademark for the "Wagatha Christie" phrase, according to a tweet from the UK Intellectual Property Office, which said: "Rebekah Vardy has registered WAGO'S CATERING & DIVE IN AND MORE AS A WORDMARK and other trademarks."  The trademark registration comes as she's been in a bitter legal war with Rooney, who won the High Court case in October.  Rooney's lawyers told the court that they're "minded to apply for an order against Vardy for costs to be assessed and that Vardy be ordered to pay costs on indemnity basis."  At the time, Rooney tweeted: "The last thing I ever thought would happen is that I'd be taking legal action against someone in this way."  She added: "We are at the end of what was a lengthy and painful process but I am pleased that the result has confirmed what I have always maintained and that I have been vindicated.  "I would like to thank my legal team and those involved who have helped along the way, in particular I would like to thank Rebekah Vardy's former employee for sharing information which ultimately led to this result. I hope that you are now able to walk away from this process and focus on your family."
Local elections 2023: Conservative sniping starts over lo  Recrimination, even infighting, is already under way among the Tories, writes BBC political editor Chris Mason.  With more results in England's local elections still to come, it's already clear the Conservatives are doing worse than they  were five years ago.But there is a more widespread pattern to this.In more than 100 councils where the Tories are out of power, they're losing councillors - though in very few cases have they lost seats outright.  That doesn't look good for the Conservatives.Labour are currently in charge of 40 councils where the Tories are out of power, and they've already won 12 seats from the opposition - as well as making inroads into the ruling parties, notably in the Liverpool area.  It's an important year, he'll be making sure the party is on an upward trajectory by the end of the 12 months. Who cares if they aren't up to scratch? they are the only party the public can trust to fix the country and are making progress.  <strong>What you need to know about local elections on 4 May 2023</strong>Local elections on 4 May 2023. The full list of who's standing in each seat and why local elections matter.  <strong>UK local elections: Tories see 'significant drop' in support</strong>The Conservative Party has seen a “significant drop” in support, according to polling firm YouGov. The poll suggests the main opposition Labour Party is in prime position to take over from Boris Johnson’s party as the largest group. It comes as the UK prepares to go to the polls on May 4 for local council elections. It also comes as the former UK prime minister is facing a possible court case for lying to the public over Partygate. Meanwhile, the Labour party is struggling with internal tensions over its leadership. And the UK is facing a cost-of-living crisis. Sky's Ed Conway takes you through it all. EdConwayTV The best of the opposition are already on the ballot. Can’t see the Labour party having any new ideas to fix anything. And as for the Lib Dems… the one who actually won a election. Now the Tories have lost over 1000 seats, this is just a continuation of that. So, it’s now Labour’s turn for a loss of seats. We’re never going to have a Tory free election are we? So who wins? Labour 4 years. The only way out for the Tories is to get the Labour Party removed!  <strong>Local elections 2023: Tories face 'difficult day' in English polls</strong>The Conservatives are forecast to lose dozens of seats as England heads to the polls, Sky News reports. The Tories are losing dozens of seats but their leader still says he will 'carry on for as long as you support me' and not resign after this. Is that still the case? So what? I think a majority Tory government would be great as well. I’m not impressed by a party who can’t even do local elections properly! The Lib Dems would have been the better bet. They just do not have the nous, or commitment or ability to do the job.  <strong>Local elections: Who is standing? Latest updates on council candidates for 2023</strong>Local elections 2023: Who is standing? Latest updates on council candidates for 2023 How much is the council tax going to go up by?  <strong>Local elections 2023: How the polls are shaping up for England's vote</strong>The BBC is producing a number of graphics, videos and other content to support our reporting of local elections 2023 in England.  <strong>Local elections 2023: Are you eligible to vote and how do I apply for a postal or proxy vote?</strong>Local elections 2023: Are you eligible to vote and how do I apply for a postal or proxy vote? - You could get a £150 grant if you need new or better home working equipment. It's available through a scheme the government launched in April. 1836.5k to go  More than half of England’s local councils are up for grabs in the 2023 local elections, and it’s been a turbulent few months for the Conservative Party.What’s your local council? Find your council here The 2023 local elections are on Thursday 4 May.2 min read 4 May 2023 - 20:16 Ed Conway It’s polling day today in the UK's local elections.17 mins ago The Conservatives are facing a significant drop in support in the 2023 local elections, YouGov's polling suggests.  But just over two weeks to go, there is a sense among Tories that they are in danger of slipping into third place behind Labour, which is seen as poised to capitalise on the turmoil in Westminster. With more results in England&#39;s local elections still to come, it&#39;s already clear the Conservatives are doing worse than they were five years ago. You
Johnny Kitagawa: J-pop agency boss resigns over predator's abu  The CEO finally acknowledges the rampant sexual abuse committed by industry titan Johnny Kitagawa.  Johnny Kitagawa (pictured on screen) was a J-pop titan who used his immense power to sexually abuse aspiring boyband idols  The boss of  a leading Japanese music agency has resigned over the discovery of sexual abuse committed by a figure who has for years controlled Japan's idol and J-pop industry, local reports say.  Johnny Kitagawa, CEO and founder of Johnny & Associates, died in 2019, but his actions and role in the agency's rise are still a hot-topic, after the group disbanded in early March, amid revelations of decades-long sexual abuse of its idols.  On Thursday, Johnny & Associates confirmed the resignation of his successor, Johnny Kitagawa Jr., who only recently took over the group in September 2020, saying that the resignation followed the "new understanding" of Kitagawa Jr.'s position.  On his last day, the agency released a statement and a video statement from the agency that said it had come to regret Kitagawa Jr.'s actions and had decided to "accept responsibility" for the scandals.  "It's hard to describe what Johnny & Associates has done to the employees and members," the statement said, adding that the "realities and the actions of the president have caused enormous pain to those involved."  The group said it had no "intention of turning a blind eye to the abuse of authority and power" and had been "working to prevent such actions and educate the people involved in the company."  "The group apologizes for not being able to protect those in the organization from such actions by the president. We would like to sincerely apologize for the serious damage that has caused."  Kitagawa Jr's resignation is the culmination of the sexual misconduct scandals that emerged last year.  The former boss has been accused of sexually assaulting minors, paying millions of dollars to silence his victims and exploiting his power to get them to work illegally in his company in order to obtain sexual favours.  In a statement to the Japan Times, Kitagawa Jr said he had been made aware of Kitagawa's actions only after he had taken office.  "I want to apologize for everything that happened in the past," Kitagawa Jr. said in a video message. "My role was to prevent such things from happening and to help the president fulfill his promises, which I will do.  "I'm sorry that this has caused such a huge social problem. I would like to work to solve it as soon as possible."  The revelations have been condemned by Japan's prime minister and culture minister.  Culture minister Yoshiko Sato has called for an investigation into the situation and an inquiry into the management of Japan's idol and J-pop industry.  The revelations prompted the government to revise its idol law, which was enacted in 2003, to put "more control over young idols in the hands of the companies that represent them," said Kitagawa in a statement.  The group, which is currently led by Kitagawa, has made many comments on its website in relation to Kitagawa's resignation.  "We have taken measures to prevent this kind of situation from happening again," said the agency's chief legal officer, Masaru Mori.  "We are taking concrete measures, such as establishing a system to ensure the safety of young idols and members, creating a system that ensures the privacy of children, and increasing transparency in the business activities of our group," he added.  On his final day, Kitagawa Jr also announced the resignation of four other senior officials.  "This is the right choice for the sake of young idols and members, the victims of abuse, and the fans who love Johnny & Associates," he added in a statement.  In the video message, he also said he had taken steps to ensure that members are "protected" from being forced into sexual activity or sexual misconduct.  "I do not wish to repeat past events," he added. "I'm going to take decisive actions to ensure the group is a safe place for our members and their fans."  The group has also said it will publish a report to the public on the findings of an investigation into Kitagawa's actions in Japan, and will share more details about their future plans.
Keir Starmer promises to build new towns and 1.5m hom  The Labour leader says he will "bulldoze through" the planning system in England if his party wins power.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  Sir Keir  Starmer has said he will "bulldoze through" the planning system in England if Labour is elected in May, and build new towns and 1.5 million houses.  The Labour leader made the pledge as he met with planners in Hull and vowed to stop "nimbyism" - short for "not in my back yard" - if he is elected.  It comes as the Conservatives have accused Labour of threatening to tear down the green belt.  But Labour said the party's commitment to building more homes included taking housing on "brownfield" sites such as derelict or contaminated buildings.  The party also pledged to build 150,000 "truly affordable" council homes over the next 10 years.  Speaking to the press at the event in Hull, Sir Keir said: "We want to make sure that communities have a voice, we want to listen to them and make sure that we build the houses that they need.  "But if we are saying that this is the way that it's got to be done, we need to bulldoze through that system.  "And that's what we're going to do."  The housing pledge is one of a string of new promises set out by Sir Keir in his party's manifesto.  Sir Keir said: "Labour's levelling up agenda sets out our plans to level up communities and help people fulfil their potential. It is a vision that is as ambitious as the vision was of our party for a fairer country.  "It recognises the importance of infrastructure, good education and skills, better public services and good transport links for people to make their communities the best they can be.  "Labour's levelling up agenda recognises that this will not happen overnight but it will happen because Labour has the plan to get things done."  Sir Keir has accused the Conservatives of ignoring his pledge to level up Britain, saying the prime minister and chancellor had been making "promises about levelling up but it just does not add up".  The prime minister has said "Levelling up means leveling up the best of what the people of our country have to offer".  He continued: "And we are going to get on with building 300,000 new homes every year.  "We're going to get on with delivering new hospitals, schools, roads and railways."  Mr Sunak added that the party's policies would ensure "our country can get moving again".  The government has unveiled a £120m package of measures to boost supply, including providing £200m towards a new programme to build 3,000 homes a year on council land, helping 600,000 homeowners to sell and allowing families to make more flexible use of their homes.  Mr Sunak said the Conservative Party would "never say never" when asked by a journalist whether he could consider a four-year parliament, as the UK enters election season.  "I don't think it's right in the middle of an election campaign to pre-empt the outcome of the election, the British public will decide what they want to do and I think it's best to wait until the 12th of May to say whether they'd like a four-year or a shorter election campaign."  "You don't vote for a prime minister you vote for a government."
Don't tilt too far towards unions, warns Peter Mandelson  The key architect of New Labour says the party needs to ensure it can attract private investment.  Lord Mandelson was a cabinet minster under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown and was a key figure in New Labour  A key architect of New Labour has urged  the party to strike a balance between appeasing public sector unions and attracting private investment.  Writing in the Observer, Lord Mandelson says the party needs to be mindful of the fact that it has had a "long and unhappy relationship" with the unions.  He adds: "It was only in recent years that the party began to appreciate the value of business - and I do mean business - to New Labour.  "Yet, though the relationship between our party and the City has matured over the past decade, it is not yet fully formed."  Labour has been under fire of late for its poor performance in attracting inward investment, and last year hosted one of the lowest-attended business conferences in decades.  Lord Mandelson's comments come as new Labour figures are published, which suggest the party is still struggling to reach out to business.  Despite a significant decline in the number of private sector workers who identified with Labour since the 2010 election, the party maintains a lead in the polls when it comes to public sector workers.  It means, according to the latest figures, a 16 per cent gap between Labour's private sector voters and its public sector voters.  Only the Greens have a greater public sector lead than Labour.  A Labour spokesperson said: "These figures do not reflect Labour’s record on jobs and growth in the private sector. Labour has created 1.5 million more private sector jobs since 2010 and is delivering our plan for jobs and growth in the UK.  "Labour is on a clear path to win the next election as the best party to deal with the economy. The Conservatives’ poor record on managing the public finances and on the economy has been clear for a long time now."  In his article, Lord Mandelson writes: "I have often pointed out that the union relationship in New Labour was never particularly close. It was the party's most important ally, certainly, but it was also its most implacable enemy on a number of important issues.  "The unions have traditionally found in New Labour an enemy of their values and in our ranks the suspicion that the party is being hijacked by private interests, or indeed simply a party of the business class - if not the ruling class.  "There has also been a degree of resentment within the unions about the fact that the party has been willing to compromise with government on a range of issues in exchange for labour law reform that could undermine their collective bargaining arrangements.  "So it was only in recent years that the party began to appreciate the value of business - and I do mean business - to New Labour.  "There is no doubt in my mind that the change of tone in party policy since 2010 has made a big difference, and is a big reason for the change in the fortunes of Labour in the polls. The party and its members have learned to appreciate the value of a broader base of support and the importance of working with business to meet the needs of our country.  "Yet it is clear that the relationship between our party and the City has not yet matured. There remain in some quarters suspicions about the motives of our party."  Lord Mandelson also says: "We need to understand the concerns of the trade unions about the potential for the public sector pay policy and the government’s wider reforms to the industrial relations system to have a chilling effect on our ability to recruit and retain top talent across all walks of public service delivery.  "For the union movement, reform of public services in the areas of the economy, public services and transport are a vital part of its fight to keep its members gainfully employed and well-remunerated, and to be able to continue to deliver the excellent public service record that it rightly takes such pride in."
Israel Gaza live news: Israel says body of hostage found as communications go down in Gaza  Israeli officials say troops found 65-year-old Yehudit Weiss's body near Al-Shifa hospital in Gaza City.  It's coming up to 03:00 in Gaza and Israel 's military appears to be in the midst of a withdrawal from Gaza, the area still controlled by Palestinian militants.Israel has been blockading the territory for more than a month, imposing a strict blockade on trade and supplies.  But on Tuesday, after weeks of negotiations, Israel agreed to withdraw from Gaza under a deal with militant group Hamas, which is currently in charge of Gaza.In exchange, Israel will get the bodies of its captured soldiers and civilians held captive by the Hamas militants and access to the remains of some 14 Israeli soldiers who are believed to have been killed during Israel's war last winter.  Israeli forces left the Strip last Friday, with Israel also allowing humanitarian aid to enter.Meanwhile, Palestinian fighters are still fighting Israel in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, where there is an ongoing military offensive.In the area surrounding Jerusalem, Palestinians say Israeli troops have been firing live ammunition into the streets to disperse crowds of people protesting the West Bank operation. headtopics.com  Israeli troops have also been conducting search and arrest operations to round up militants and wanted fugitives.As many as 110 people have been arrested since the operation began in the West Bank a week ago, according to Israeli officials.  But Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas told reporters the latest arrest campaign was aimed at silencing the Palestinian opposition.Israeli troops have also arrested eight prominent opposition members from Hamas, a senior Israeli security official confirmed on Tuesday.Hamas and Palestinian Authority leader Abbas have long been at loggerheads, and both men have been critical of President Donald Trump.  Mr Abbas is seen as anti-Trump and his own Fatah faction is a rival to Hamas, while the US President is widely regarded as close to Mr Trump's ally in Jerusalem, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.Tensions between the Palestinian president and Israeli prime minister have escalated sharply since Mr Trump recognised Jerusalem as Israel's capital and moved the US embassy from Tel Aviv to the holy city last month.  Palestinians had long hoped the US would follow through with the promise of funding an Israeli-Palestinian peace plan.Mr Netanyahu called the move "a historic and positive step".The US President is yet to announce what form that plan will take, but Mr Trump's peace plan is expected to support Mr Netanyahu's plans to annex much of the occupied West Bank if the two sides remain deadlocked. headtopics.com  The Trump plan, which the US President has said is his "last best shot" at bringing peace to the Middle East, would see Israel expand its control over many of the areas it captured during the 1967 Middle East war.Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has so far refused to discuss the Israeli-Palestinian peace process until the US administration presents its plan.
Epsom College deaths: No investigation into police contact with husband  Surrey Police had contacted George Pattison over a firearms licence, days before he killed his wife.  There will be no investigation into police contact with a man days before he killed his wife, Epsom College's head, a watchdog has said.  Emma  Pattison was killed along with her husband, George, and seven-year-old daughter Lettie, who all died in a double shooting at the Berkshire school.  George had been under supervision for the renewal of his firearm licence on 19 March.  Surrey Police said it would look into whether there were other issues of concern to it.  The Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) said no investigation into the police contact was required.  The IOPC said in a statement: "A review of the police contact with George Pattison found the response and actions of those police officers were entirely reasonable.  "We've concluded there is no evidence to suggest the police's contact with Mr Pattison may have made him more likely to take his own life or his wife's.  "As part of our investigation we spoke to Mr Pattison's son in London who told us he had also been a pupil at Epsom College, before he was murdered in the shooting along with his mother and sister.  "We have been concerned to learn how difficult it may have been for his family to access justice and are supporting them in considering appropriate memorials."  Surrey Police said it had a "duty of care" to all those under its supervision and would continue with the renewal of firearm licences.  "We have spoken with the deceased family and assured them that their safety and welfare will always be a priority, and that their views are taken into account in our decision making as we conduct this renewal process.  "Our thoughts and sympathies are with everyone affected by this tragedy."  The school, a top independent day and boarding school for boys, said in a statement: "The tragic death of a pupil's parent has had a deeply devastating impact on the community.  "This is an extremely sensitive and complex situation which the school must and will support Emma and George's immediate family through."  The IOPC said it received a referral on 12 April after Emma's husband called police saying he had shot and killed his wife and daughter at home, before taking his own life.  It said the police firearms officer had visited the home and taken Mr Pattison to hospital for assessment, where he was detained for a period of time.  The watchdog said he was later discharged but was given a police caution for possession of a firearm while the licence application was being processed, but was not charged or prosecuted.  The IOPC review was published after Emma Pattison was buried at St Nicholas Church, Cobham, Surrey.  Epsom College, where George Pattison was headmaster, said a book of condolences had been opened for those who wish to pay tribute to Emma.  Headmaster Andy Otte will visit Mrs Pattison's family in the coming weeks, the school said.  "We do not yet have any further information, but have offered the family the support of our counsellors in the coming days, weeks and months," it said.  "It is an enormous shock for our school community."
irmingham doctor saves man's life on London to India flight  Dr Vishwaraj Vemala was on a flight to India when a passenger went into cardiac arrest  Dr Vishwaraj Vemala was on a flight from the UK to India when the passenger went into cardiac arrest  A doctor has described battling for five hours  to save a passenger’s life on a long-haul flight.  Dr Vishwaraj Vemala, 37, was on a flight from London to Mumbai in India when he witnessed a man in his 50s suffer a heart attack mid-air.  The former consultant at Birmingham Children's Hospital and West Midlands Ambulance Service, who is currently an associate fellow at the University of Manchester, was one of several medics working on the flight which had been diverted to Dubai.  READ MORE: Birmingham doctor, 29, saves man's life on Mumbai to New York flight  The doctor said: “When I was on duty on the aircraft, I was doing all the medical investigations that were required, such as an ECG and a blood test. The patient had chest pain, and I was getting a continuous reading.  “As I was reading this result, one of the cabin crew members came running to me. She was in tears and kept saying he’s not breathing anymore, but I knew the reading didn’t match. The reading could still be wrong.  “I asked the team to get some blood from the patient’s vein and rushed to see what the result was. The patient was turning blue and I asked for a defibrillator but they didn’t have one on board.  “I had to call for it over the PA system. We were about to lose the patient. There was no way that I could get any more time.  “We all put our hands together and gave CPR but there was no oxygen supply on board. There was no oxygen mask. I had to try and think of ways to get more oxygen.  “At one point I thought of attaching a mask to an oxygen bottle which was on the plane, but there was no way I was going to attach the mask to a bottle. I was panicking and I just remember thinking that there was no oxygen on board and the patient was not responding.  “I was really scared and then I thought about what I did in school. I remembered what we used to do in school and I realised that I could use a plastic bag, and it would act as a substitute for a breathing mask, to provide the patient with an oxygen supply. I did it.  “We put the patient in the medical compartment and gave him oxygen. I had no idea if this bag would really work. We were on the ground at Dubai. We were getting to the hospital, 250 miles away, within two hours.”  Dr Vishwaraj Vemala, a former consultant at Birmingham Children's Hospital and West Midlands Ambulance Service.  He recalled his first meeting with the patient in the sick bay, saying: “He was crying, the patient was unconscious, he was struggling for breath, and he was in so much pain. He had lost his voice.  “His family was there, they were so distressed and upset, but I had to do all the medical investigations I could. We managed to resuscitate the patient. We used a defibrillator and I used my hands to resuscitate the patient. His family was crying, we were all crying.  “I remember that the patient’s wife was holding on to her husband’s hand and she was crying so hard, you could hear her crying across the whole of the airport. The patient could not respond to anything.  “The patient’s family said we have to keep going until the ambulance gets here. We’ll get the patient to the best hospital. We all did everything we could to save his life.  “The flight crew on the plane kept telling me to relax and keep going. That’s what they said, ‘keep going, you’re doing well, don’t worry’. The passenger was taken to a hospital in Dubai where doctors continued to treat him.  “The patient ended up being flown to a hospital in Abu Dhabi, and then he flew back to India on a different plane.”  READ NEXT:Birmingham nurse who saved the lives of 27 people in the space of two years reveals how she'd be devastated if she could not save someone else  Dr Vishwaraj Vemala’s next step is to work towards becoming a consultant at the Birmingham Heart Centre  In the years after graduating, Dr Vishwaraj Vemala worked as a general doctor in Leicestershire, where he met and married his wife, who he met on a plane heading to India.  He has since left the NHS to join the University of Manchester, which he hopes will lead to a consultant job in Birmingham or Leicester in the future.  Dr Vishwaraj Vemala, with wife Priyanka Vemala.  He added: “I am very passionate about teaching. I would like to go back to the NHS when I do complete my fellowship and be part of the team here again.  “I really want to go back to the NHS, and if I’m successful, I would like to work here. I think Birmingham
Dozens of protesters arrested during Coronation  Republic CEO Graham Smith was among 52 detained in London, as protests were held around the UK.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  Dozens of people have been arrested during the King's Coronation,  with many being held in and around St George's Chapel, where the coronation ceremony was taking place. Graham Smith, chief executive of the anti-monarchy lobby group Republic, said: "I am happy to be arrested today.  The anti-monarchy campaign group told its followers to turn up for a pre-Coronation protest near the Queen's favourite spot of Windsor Castle. They arrived at the chapel at 11:45 BST. At 15 minutes to noon, police pushed the crowd back to Windsor Great Park.  Head over to the official YouTube channel and make sure to subscribe so you don't miss out on a thing: https://youtube.com/officialrepublic?sub_confirmation=1  The protesters had to turn back after 30 minutes, when officers began arresting anyone they said had been blocking or obstructing the public area of the park. The group tweeted later to say some of those arrested had already been released by officers.  We'll send you a myft with the latest headlines and expert analysis 10am to 12pm every day - along with other newsletters you might like. We'd like to set additional cookies to understand how you use GOV.UK, remember your settings and improve government services. headtopics.com  I would've thought it was illegal to protest during the coronation! Good luck arresting people on a Saturday and Sunday when they have the right to protest during a bank holiday, and in this case a coronation. Good Luck with that. Why does it matter ?  A bit of a joke, the Monarchy. They should have all been shot. A bloody waste of taxpayers money. They only get to do it once and it's a waste of all our money. They need a good kick up the arse and a good hard telling off, not money handed out for nothing. But what about the monarchy?  I’ll never understand why so many people still support these people, they are a disgrace. They can't go to any pub or restaurant if you go down there it's all pubs and restaurants you'll be fine. So when is the monarchy going away then. Let's be real. How long does it take the police to arrest a handful of people when everyone knows what they are doing?  But they were peaceful, so they couldn’t be arrested. The police didn’t want to make it into a riot. I suppose if the protesters were all black it would have been a different matter. The police were happy to stop the coronation of an imaginary monarch. I wonder why. Did they also arrest the people protesting at the royal wedding?  'It's a bit of a joke.' Not to the 100% of Britons who don't want them.  <strong>Thousands of people arrested at King Charles III coronation – video</strong>The anti-monarchy movement that was behind the 2021 ‘Glastonbury-style’ protest against the Duke and Duchess of Sussex had hundreds of people arrested at the King’s coronation. Hundreds? Maybe even a thousand? The coronation was peaceful... The police arrested thousands, which should have come with zero surprise, so we won’t have to hear ‘they were all peaceful’ again, and the police could get on with their job. Hundreds arrested?  Why do so many people go on about the monarchy? They are nothing more than a rich family that want to keep the money that belongs to us. The media is a disgrace. As long as they do not arrest a black man. The media are on the case reporting all the non-news stories but they can't be arsed to report on this.  The police could arrest 100,000 people today and do nothing. I'm guessing they're all peaceful? Good grief. We have had to have a couple of police men in our street for years protesting about our street lights. It is really a great disservice to the country. They won't stop until they are all shot for treason and the monarchy is disbanded.  So they're arrested on the basis of there opinions? I don't like them either but it's still against the human rights act to arrest people for what they believe. They didn't riot, they didn't steal. The UK is a banana republic. You have the freedom to speak against them, but they are in charge. You don't have any say on how your taxes are used, you have no say on how your money is spent, no say on how the police act.  A joke, how is the news doing today? We need more stories of arrests, not more coronation stuff that’s what we need not that  <strong>King Charles III coronation: how to get tickets, live streaming & other details</strong>King Charles will be crowned at London's Westminster Abbey today, but here's everything you need to know about the coronation - including how to watch it live  <strong>King Charles
Stormont budget: NI secretary denies setting out 'punishment budget'  Most Stormont departments will have their budgets cut in cash terms this financial year.  Chris Heaton-Harris spoke to the media after meeting the main Stormont parties  The secretary of state has hit back at accusations that he had set out a " punishment budget" for Northern Ireland.  Most Stormont departments will have their budgets cut in cash terms this financial year, according to the Treasury.  It means the devolved administration faces cuts in public spending of between 2 and 3% this financial year.  The minister for Northern Ireland, Chris Heaton-Harris, denied his decision to publish the departments' spending plans in the next financial year was a "punishment" for ministers.  Speaking to the media in Belfast, he said: "No, they were done in the normal way. I'm only setting out the spending allocation for 2023/24. The budget for next year is set to be £10bn.  "There's no such thing as a punishment budget, the budgets we've been working with over the last couple of weeks have been made and agreed between Treasury and the departments.  "That process happened very publicly with all the departments, their departments were involved in the process. It was a normal process."  Mr Heaton-Harris said there was a limit to what he could do as the Northern Ireland Secretary.  "That's part of the process for what I am saying here today. It is important to note that the Secretary of State doesn't set budgets for departments. The Treasury sets budgets for departments."  He added: "There are limits to what the Secretary of State can do and this is one of them. It is a very important part of a multi-level government structure.  "In terms of how we approach this situation, I think that all the main parties are focused on how they work with us to take it forward.  "There is a long history of the Stormont House Agreement and the Belfast Agreement which sets out how we deliver public services in Northern Ireland and we need to work towards the delivery of that.  "It will be challenging times for public services across the United Kingdom and it will be challenging times for Stormont public services. We need to make sure that we are working effectively together to achieve that.  "I have had a very constructive meeting with the leaders of the four main parties. There are things we need to discuss and things that we need to put right. We are committed to delivering public services in Northern Ireland effectively.  "We need to take that forward. We have a difficult road to travel, but we can do that and we can do it effectively."  The DUP's Paul Givan  Earlier, the DUP's deputy leader Nigel Dodds accused Mr Heaton-Harris of a "stitch up" with ministers, with the party's Paul Givan saying the cuts were "punitive".  "This isn't a normal budget, it was a stitch-up by Treasury working with the Treasury working alongside the Secretary of State," he told BBC News NI.  "This is a punitive approach and there is little or no detail on how it's going to be funded in the first place."  Mr Givan added: "The real problem is that the Treasury is imposing their budgetary decisions and the Stormont parties have no real part in it whatsoever."  Ulster Unionist Leader Doug Beattie  Doug Beattie, the leader of the Ulster Unionist Party, told reporters that it was clear to see "the UK Government are trying to make a political point here, that this is a political stunt".  "I think this does give the opportunity to push back on some of the issues which we're seeing, including the protocol, the need for reform of the Assembly and the need for more money, we can get more of that to work together to try and resolve these issues.  "We need to get back to some kind of normality on the island of Ireland, and we've been here too long in a difficult situation, so I think now is the time to get back to getting that right."  The DUP's Paul Givan  Earlier, the DUP's Paul Givan described the secretary of state's decision as a "punitive approach".  "This isn't a normal budget, it was a stitch-up by Treasury working with the Treasury working alongside the Secretary of State."  Northern Ireland's largest party said it had been "in discussions with the Secretary of State for the last four or five days" ahead of his announcement.  Mr Givan said Stormont parties are now expected to work together to mitigate the impact of the budgets on the public.  "There are £50m here, £50m there but actually they could be making decisions to have a real effect," he told BBC News NI.  "The Treasury are saying they've made it. We know they've made the budgets because we've been involved in the process with them and that should allow us to mitigate what they're putting forward, but I think there are issues of fairness.  "I think they are being unfair on some of the departments particularly the Departments for Justice and Education in that a lot of what
Antisemitic incidents 'quadruple in UK' since Hamas attack in Israel  A Jewish security group says incidents are up compared with the same period last year.  The Met Police said it would provide a visible presence in some Jewish communities in the wake of the Hamas attack on Israel  Antisemitic incidents in the  UK "quadruple" since the Gaza terror attacks, the Jewish Community Security Trust (JCST) has said.The group says it recorded more than 4,300 instances of antisemitism between July and September.  The incidents include anti-Jewish abuse, vandalism and attempted attacks on Jewish community institutions.The JCST adds that the number of such cases in London was almost 50% higher than the same period last year."We have seen a quadrupling of these attacks over the same period in 2022, and this is extremely concerning, particularly in London," JCST chief executive Jonathan Goldstein said.  How many are there of them? The anti semetic people that voted to let these people in. How can someone be so brain dead. There’s no justification for this except for a desire to kill Jews. And this is just the tip of the iceberg  <strong>Israel death toll rises to 2600 as world rallies behind Israel</strong>The Hamas attack marks the most lethal assault on the Jewish state since 1982. How many Palestinian lives are taken for Israel’s crimes of apartheid & military occupation? A few hundred Palestinians killed while thousands of Jewish terror attacks have taken place in the occupied territories. A bit odd that when the US goes to war (Iraq, Afghanistan) or when the UK goes to war, we never hear about it. Yet these are two world superpowers who don’t want war to be reported when their troops are involved. It’s the US and UK and their allies Israel who bomb other countries.  <strong>Gaza border blockades could spark violence, Gaza health official says</strong>Israel, which has sealed off the Gaza Strip since the militant group Hamas's takeover, said it would remove barriers in four crossings on Friday, although it had not said that it would allow a return of people and goods. The problem is that they refuse to negotiate. The US government has no power to persuade them, as it has no troops there. They can't do that, unless they want war. In the meantime, the blockade is going to cause more suffering, and Hamas is going to do something. The best option is for Israel and Hamas to work it out, without external intervention.  <strong>More than 1000 Israelis killed in Hamas attack, Israeli govt says</strong>More than 1000 Israelis killed in Hamas attack, Israeli govt says  <strong>Israel’s 2008 War Crimes: A ‘Green Light’ For the Present</strong>A Hamas-Israeli battle is about more than who can hold out longer. This is about the future of the state of Israel and its relationship with the Palestinians. The war crime of Israel's destruction of Gaza and its population, a war crime that has caused over 10,000 deaths to date, is what gives Hamas a sense of revenge.  <strong>Israeli police kill 6 Palestinian protesters after march to Gaza border</strong>Israeli security forces open fire on Palestinian protesters as they march near the Gaza border in the occupied West Bank.  <strong>Israel's Prime Minister Bennett receives death threats, official says</strong>Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has received death threats, his office said on Wednesday.  Britain has seen a doubling in antisemitic incidents since Hamas invaded Israel on October 7, prompting a deadly Israeli military offensive, the Jewish Community Security Trust has said.3 minutes ago US President Joe Biden was asked during a White House press conference on Wednesday whether he regretted not taking action against Israel prior to the invasion.A Gaza official says Israel is not allowing an influx of medical supplies and fuel for Gaza hospitals, leading to warnings of more suffering.Israel's Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has received death threats, his office said on Wednesday.  The group says it recorded more than 4,300 instances of antisemitism between July and September. The incidents include anti-Jewish abuse, vandalism and attempted attacks on Jewish community institutions. In response to that question Biden said his decision was to be guided by "intelligence". The JCST adds that the number of such cases in London was almost 50% higher than the same period last year. Palestinian doctors and medical workers face an uphill battle to resuscitate Gaza patients in the shadow of Israel's blockade."We have seen a quadrupling of these attacks over the same period in 2022, and this is extremely concerning, particularly in London," JCST chief executive Jonathan Goldstein said. "I'm not going to speak to them prior to an attack like that," Biden said. Mr Goldstein said the figures were "very concerning" and that there were 15 incidents in London in the week following the invasion.  He added: "These attacks have taken place at a time of significant escalation and it's clear there's been a very direct relationship. I don't want to get to that point. Israeli airstrikes have so far hit more than 350 targets across Gaza, according to the military.
Italian banks hit with surprise windfall tax  The potential one-off tax on the profits banks earn from higher interest rates has seen shares plummet.  The Porta Nuova business district seen from the terrace of Duomo Cathedral in Milan  Italy has passed a one-off 40% tax on the profits banks earn from  higher interest rates in a bid to tackle inflation, spurring a selloff in shares on Thursday morning.The move means Italian banks could end up paying up to 2 billion euros ($2.1 billion) in extra tax this year, Finance Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti said in a statement on Wednesday.  Giorgetti said on Thursday the tax is temporary, with a "significant" number of people consulted during the past 12 months.Banks' net profits were roughly 7.5 billion euros last year, a historic high that would be boosted this year with higher interest rates that have helped some banks boost their lending yields."We will have to see the details," said Enrico Rossi, an economist at UniCredit. "We believe this could be an incentive for foreign banks to move to Italy as the profitability of Italian banks might be less attractive."  <strong>Italy to raise taxes on bank profits as it confronts surging inflation</strong>Italian banks are braced for a one-off windfall tax as they scramble to offset the impact of soaring inflation with higher interest rates. What does windfall mean for us ? We have been the ones getting a massive tax cut for 2023  <strong>Italy passes tax on banks’ record profits</strong>The surprise windfall tax threatens to take 1 billion euros from Italy’s 7 largest banks, as they try to make up for losses in the stock market since the start of the year.  <strong>Italy passes tax on banks' record profits</strong>The Italian government is expected to make its surprise windfall tax on banks’ record profits official later today. This is the news we needed. Good. I’ve never been so grateful for a tax. It makes me feel good inside.  <strong>Italy's banks face 1 billion euro tax after unexpected windfall profits</strong>Italian banks will have to pay an estimated 1 billion euros ($1.06 billion) in tax next year on record profits as it confronts surging inflation, Finance Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti announced on Wednesday.  <strong>Italian banks to pay 1 billion euro tax after unexpected profits</strong>Italian banks will have to pay an estimated 1 billion euros ($1.06 billion) in tax next year on record profits as it confronts surging inflation, Finance Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti announced on Wednesday. This windfall tax threat is a way for the government to take more taxes from the wealthy. We were told by media that there were a few banks that were making extraordinary profits at the peak of Covid-19. That led to a campaign that wanted them to return money to the people by paying some of their profits back to taxpayers.  <strong>Italy will force banks to share record profits in unprecedented move - Politico</strong>Italian banks will be forced to pay a 40% tax on their record profits in an attempt to tackle inflation in the European Union's third-largest economy after it reported the fastest rate of consumer price rises across the bloc in the past year.  26 Feb, 2023 12:48 PM The Italian government has passed a one-off windfall tax on the profits banks earn from higher interest rates, sending Italian shares lower on Thursday morning.A windfall tax on banks’ record profits is looming in Italy, threatening to take 1 billion euros from the 7 largest banks in the country as they scramble to offset the impact of soaring inflation with higher interest rates.23 Feb, 2023 04:52 PM Updated 16 minutes ago Italian banks could have to hand over 1 billion euros in a one-off tax on their record profits as it battles surging inflation, the country's finance minister said Wednesday.23 Feb, 2023 04:00 PM Updated 16 minutes ago Italian banks could have to hand over 1 billion euros in a one-off tax on their record profits as it battles surging inflation, the country's finance minister said Wednesday.  Advertisement.The move means Italian banks could end up paying up to 2 billion euros ($2.3 billion) in extra tax this year, Finance Minister Giancarlo Giorgetti said in a statement on Wednesday.1 billion) in 2023. Banks’ net profits were roughly 7.8 billion last year, a historic high that would be boosted this year with higher interest rates that have helped some banks boost their lending yields.29 billion. “This windfall tax should be more than welcome,” Rossi said.  “For the first time, the market has had a real return since 2021.7 billion euros last year, with a return of around 130% on the funds injected by the Italian government and international partners to stave off a collapse in the banking sector during the Covid pandemic.” It remains unclear if the government will make the proposal formal, though Giorgetti said that it would be part of the finance ministry's budget plan due on March 2.Advertisement.5 billion euros last year. The announcement
ritish Gas boss takes £3.7m bonus despite criticism  Chris O'Shea will still take a bonus after the firm's debt agents broke into vulnerable people's homes to fit meters.  The Centrica boss has refused bonuses for the past three years  The boss of British Gas-owner Centrica  had been considering returning a £3.7 million bonus he was due after his group faced a series of scandals, including claims that debt collectors broke into the homes of vulnerable customers, the Daily Telegraph reported.  The company, which also owns the Co-op, was hit by claims that its debt collectors had broken into the homes of vulnerable customers to fit meters in what critics said amounted to debt-harvesting.  "The board and the executive are taking a pay cut," a spokesman for the company said.  The bonus was set to make it an even easier decision for Centrica to raise its dividend - its share price is up 15 per cent this year.  In a statement, Centrica's chief executive Chris O'Shea said: "The board and the executive have agreed to a 20 per cent pay reduction to 2017 while the company recovers from this period of difficult market conditions.  "We are pleased that the company will have the flexibility to maintain a higher dividend for the foreseeable future."  Mr O'Shea, who took over in 2010, already refused to accept a bonus in 2012 and 2013 as Centrica faced falling energy demand amid the rise of green energy.  He is said to have considered returning the award on the basis that British Gas was facing "major operational issues", the Telegraph said.  In an industry-wide backlash, Centrica, which also owns the Co-op, was widely blamed for turning the energy market against consumers.  In September the watchdog Ofgem fined British Gas £3.3 million for misleading customers with price-hikes while making profits.  A spokesman for Centrica said the new figure reflected the fact that dividends would now be increased by 25 per cent instead of the previously announced 50 per cent.
MLK house: Bystanders prevent attempt to burn down Dr King's birth hom  Police say bystanders stopped the arson attempt and "saved an important part of American history".  Alert bystanders stopped a woman as she attempted to set fire to the birth home of Martin Luther King Jr in Atlanta, Georgia, police  say.  The 55-year-old woman was arrested after the fire started at about 7.45am, a police spokesman said.  He said the unidentified woman, arrested on arson charges, would be charged with possession of a knife.  Police say the woman was trying to set fire to a house at 308 Auburn Avenue, where King was born in 1929 and lived for three years.  The fire was extinguished before any damage was done, said police Capt Warren Pickard.  "If not for the brave action of the bystanders that are around the house, and the heroic actions of our firefighters, that house would be in flames right now," he said.  Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin, who said the city had seen "a spike in criminal behaviour" in the last few weeks, was grateful for those who intervened.  "I just think what happened today was an absolute miracle," she said.  "And I'm just grateful that somebody heard that noise and saw the action going on and just ran in there with fire extinguishers, and put it out before we could lose a historic site."  In Washington, DC, the National Press Club said the man who set the fire had approached a member of its staff with "a piece of pipe".  "The man was wearing an armband with a Nazi flag, and a jacket with a Nazi insignia on it," the club's executive director, Dorothy Solnick, said.  The Press Club called the incident a "hate crime", but said the suspect had not attacked anyone else.  "He walked up to a member of my staff, a woman, and asked her if the Press Club had done anything to help him," she said.  "I am told that when she said that he had assaulted her. We do not have any other victims."  She said the man had attempted to get a tour of the club's meeting space but was turned away by security.  "He approached our security person and threatened her with a pipe. We have a 100% security coverage here. This man never got past our security."
owel cancer: Call for earlier screening to find tumour  Pamela Redmond says if she had been screened at 50 her tumour could have been picked up.  Pamela Redmond was diagnosed with bowel cancer in an emergency department  Pamela Redmond lived with bloating, nausea and constipation for years.  In her 30s,  she began to look pale and her eyes were a little puffy. It's something I was aware of but thought, 'Oh, it's the flu', says the 55-year-old.  But three years later, while visiting a friend in Ireland, she suffered what was her first "real" bout of the flu and started vomiting regularly. Pamela Redmond (55)  It's been something I've been living with for several years, she tells RTÉ's Today with Sean O'Rourke. "I was worried about what was going on but it was very fluid in my mind. I just wasn't able to understand what exactly was wrong and I was going to the doctor but I never knew exactly what to say."  Then two years ago, as she was helping out with a family wedding and the guests were being seated, she felt as if there was pressure in her tummy but could not get to the bathroom to go to the toilet.  "I felt like I needed to go to the toilet urgently, but there was no toilet available so I had to go out in the garden which was in front of the house and I tried to do as much as I could standing up in the middle of the grass, but there was no way I could relieve myself so I ran to my car which was right by the door and I went into the car."  Once home, she rang an ambulance. She described her condition as "like a bad stomach bug and the pain just seemed to come from my stomach".  'I was in a big mess'  "But then they told me if I didn't get to a hospital they wouldn't be able to help me because they were worried that there could be a life-threatening condition that could lead to me bleeding from my internal organs."  After four days in hospital, Pamela was finally discharged but she was given a letter to follow up at her GP surgery.  At home that day, she was alone with her mother, who had returned from her own funeral for the week - she died two weeks ago on 28 July.  "I think I started having more of a conversation with her afterwards. I told her everything that was going on in my life and about the cancer and how my life was changing and how I thought things were going and I just poured my heart out to her and she was able to just listen to me and reassure me."  'If I'd been earlier, if I'd been screened in my late 40s, there's a chance it could have been found at an earlier stage,' she said.  But, she adds, "there's no point crying over spilled milk now".  The day after her discharge, her husband, Michael, took her to her GP's office in Tralee, Co Kerry. She was told it was nothing but when she got home, she was diagnosed with bowel cancer.  She underwent surgery to have a section of her bowel removed the following day. A week later, she had a second operation to remove a tumour.  She remained in hospital for a week and had to have four weeks of chemotherapy and two cycles of radiation.  She underwent surgery to remove a tumour and six rounds of chemotherapy  Today, she has lost some of her hair and her eyebrows and her eyelashes. She says it took 10 months to recover.  She has been in remission for two years and is feeling much better. She's also learned a new skill while on furlough during the coronavirus lockdown: crochet.  She has given a number of blankets to friends and family and is making blankets for her children.  'Get screened'  Pamela says it's important to know your body and to know what is normal for you and it's important to be aware of any changes.  She's calling for all over 50s to be screened for bowel cancer.  While people in the 45-59 age group have a higher mortality rate, the disease is more treatable in those in the 50-69 age group, she says.  It's important to be aware of any changes and to listen to what your body is telling you, she said.  "If I'd been earlier, if I'd been screened in my late 40s, there's a chance it could have been found at an earlier stage and I'd be in much better shape today."  She is also calling for a reduction in waiting lists because, she says, people will only get cancer through the waiting lists.  "It's a disgrace and it's a disgrace on our health system because it's all about the waiting lists and people dying from the waiting lists rather than being in hospital and being looked after by all the specialists they need.  "That is a disgrace on the whole health system."  The post-pandemic world can be difficult. The coronavirus pandemic has shown how
Sudan crisis: Burhan and Hemedti - the two generals at the heart of the conflict  Gen Burhan and Gen Dagalo's tense relationship has spiralled into conflict engulfing the country.  A soundtrack of explosions, a skyline dominated by bitter, black smoke, a daily existence of fear and uncertainty as  the military crisis in Sudan escalates.But the coup has had an impact beyond the country’s borders, with foreign investors pulling out of Sudan and the economy falling into turmoil - a fate that is shared by many countries that have had a military takeover since the end of the Cold War.  Sudan's military and paramilitary forces at oddsCredit: ReutersSudan has a history of coups - its most infamous being in 1989 when President Bashir, ousted from office by a popular uprising and was sentenced to jail for corruption in 2019 - but has maintained a democratic veneer ever since - with the country a key partner for the UK in the fight against extremism in the Horn of Africa.  <strong>Sudan: Sudan's PM calls for peaceful resolution of political crisis</strong>Sudan's prime minister has called for a peaceful resolution to the political crisis which led the army to oust the country's leader. I think he should call for some peaceful resolution to end this genocide in the middle east. I am sad to say it but the only way is to use peaceful resolution is when the world does nothing and the situation gets worse. I have to say no one is talking about this.  <strong>Sudan army says protesters blocking Khartoum roads to be fired on</strong>Sudan's army says it will open fire on protesters who block roads in Khartoum. Sudanese army to be fired on protesters.  <strong>Sudan's prime minister calls on security forces to protect protesters</strong>Sudan's prime minister has urged security forces to protect civilians caught up in the violence, as the army launched strikes in Khartoum to try to suppress the uprising. You are the government and the army, if this is what you need to do, you are doing it to yourself because you’ve betrayed the citizens and have not done anything but oppress them! 😡  <strong>Sudan's prime minister calls for peaceful resolution of political crisis</strong>Sudan's prime minister has called for a peaceful resolution to the political crisis which led the army to oust the country's leader.  <strong>Sudan PM appeals to security forces to protect civilians caught up in the violence</strong>Sudan's prime minister has urged security forces to protect civilians caught up in the violence, as the army launched strikes in Khartoum to try to suppress the uprising.  <strong>Sudan PM calls for 'peaceful resolution' of political crisis</strong>Abdallah Hamdok has called for the immediate release of protesters who were detained overnight by the army.  The soundtrack to life in Khartoum, Sudan's chaotic and dangerous capital, has changed over the past week..Subscribe.Sudan's military says it has used tear gas and "peaceful means" to disperse protesters blocking roads in Khartoum.  But the coup has had an impact beyond the country’s borders, with foreign investors pulling out of Sudan and the economy falling into turmoil - a fate that is shared by many countries that have had a military takeover since the end of the Cold War. Sudan’s military and paramilitary forces at odds. Sudan’s military and paramilitary forces at odds A soundtrack of explosions, a skyline dominated by bitter, black smoke, a daily existence of fear and uncertainty as the military crisis in Sudan escalates. But it was a surprise to many of the protesters that the military, of which many are former soldiers, should be involved. But the coup has had an impact beyond the country’s borders, with foreign investors pulling out of Sudan and the economy falling into turmoil - a fate that is shared by many countries that have had a military takeover since the end of the Cold War. It’s been a long time since there was a coup in Sudan, but the latest military takeover in April has brought the country to the brink of disaster. Sudanese protesters, many carrying the flag of the Sudan Freedom and Change Forces (SFGF), say the country was ruled under President Omar al-Bashir for 30 years during which time he made a fortune and his family lived large on the public purse."We must all be the shield of civilians to ensure that the peaceful sit-in and resistance continue and to ensure that there is no harm to civilians from any means, we all are the protectors of protesters," he said.  The regime of President Omar Bashir, whose 30-year grip over Sudan finally came to an end in April, was removed from power by the military when he faced the prospect of a jail term. "The people want to protect their country, we are all here. A former general, Abdallāh al-Burhān (pictured in 2020), was handed the power when the army took the decision to end the Bashir regime. But the coup has had an impact beyond the country’s borders, with foreign investors pulling out of Sudan and the economy falling into turmoil - a fate that is shared by many countries that have had a military takeover since the end of the Cold War. It was not a coup that happened overnight, but over a period of time. But, he stressed, they would use all means "available".  "It was a
G20 in India: Group laments suffering in Ukraine but no condemnation of Russia  Leaders agree on a joint declaration, but the language about Ukraine is softer on Russia than last year.  Ukraine is clearly disappointed at the G20’s wording on the war.  The foreign ministry spokesman, Oleg Nikolen ko, told AFP that the wording was“inconsistent with Ukraine’s efforts”.  “We would have hoped to hear that the leaders of these countries are committed to international law and the UN Charter and to support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine,” he added.  And that will be the reaction from many around the world.  Leaders agree on a joint declaration, but the language is slightly less strident than in last year’s G20 in Italy.  “We call for a just and durable peace that brings an end to the war in Ukraine, with a comprehensive and negotiated diplomatic solution that respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, based on the UN Charter and the principles of international law,” the leaders agree.  “We reiterate our support for Ukraine’s peace formula.”  But it adds that the leaders“support a diplomatic solution to the ongoing crisis, and will continue to coordinate international efforts for a peaceful solution to the crisis in Ukraine”.  It is, however, not the same language as in last year’s declaration, which was written after the G20 meeting in the city of Bali and issued a strong condemnation of Russian actions.  Leaders also reiterate their commitment to a just and durable peace.  On climate change, the G20’s leaders “reaffirmed the importance of delivering on the Nationally Determined Contributions submitted to UNFCCC Paris Agreement, to accelerate the transition towards low-carbon and climate resilient economies and societies”, the text says.  The leaders also called for the immediate and full implementation of all G20 climate action plans.  The final statement from the two-day G20 Leaders’ Summit has been released.  The language in regards to the conflict in Ukraine is a bit softer than last year.  But overall, the group are united in the fact that global economies will continue to grow, inflation has peaked and a recession is no longer imminent.  Leaders also called for the“early and successful” completion of the COP28 climate summit in the UAE in December.  The leaders of the G20 - made up of 19 countries and the European Union - are gathering for their first in-person meeting for two years in New Delhi.  There are only a few world leaders who will be meeting at the G20 Summit in person, as most countries send their foreign ministers instead.  This is because of logistical challenges, as well as the ongoing war in Ukraine - which is currently keeping President Joe Biden in the US.  Some of the world’s most powerful leaders will be in attendance - including China’s Xi Jinping and India’s Narendra Modi.  US President Joe Biden’s decision to send his vice-president instead of attending the summit is in keeping with his diplomatic style.  At home, Biden’s support is low - which was not the case in his first year in office, when his approval ratings in September 2021 were high.  This is one of the factors behind the decision to bring Kamala Harris to the G20 summit.  She will represent the US, while Joe Biden remains in the country as more than a dozen Republicans fight for the House Speaker role.  “Biden wants to send someone to the G20 who will be able to focus on the issues on the international stage,” says Jennifer Granholm, former energy secretary under Joe Biden and a professor of law and policy at the University of California, Berkeley.  “And not necessarily deal with these internal issues which we have been dealing with now for a while in the last two years - which are very important - but they are not international,” she adds.  At the G20 summit in New Delhi, India, President Joe Biden’s administration is betting that Kamala Harris’s trip will win over some international allies in his absence.  Vice President Harris, who will be in New Delhi on Saturday, is a veteran diplomat - but one who has never traveled abroad on behalf of the US, according to her office.  Her visit to India will make her the highest-ranking American official to visit the country in 45 years, her office says.  But what are the key issues that Ms Harris will be meeting to discuss with her international counterparts?  She will, in particular, be seeking commitments from her counterparts to help Ukraine rebuild, an issue the G20 has been grappling with for years.  Ms Harris will also want to boost the US’s strategic relations with India and India’s relationship with China, two countries seen as economic and military powers with great regional influence, and where Ms Harris will be the first US vice president to travel.  The G20’s leaders will also be looking to cement the group’s credibility after the invasion of Ukraine and the pandemic.  “This was always going to be an awkward summit,” says Aarti Khosla, an Indian diplomat.  “There will be some who will not be in agreement on the statement that’s produced at the end, and also this is going to
M53 bus crash student was warm-hearted and wonderful, family say  Jessica Baker, 15, and driver Stephen Shrimpton died when the school coach overturned.  The girl who died when a school bus overturned was "warm-hearted and wonderful", her family has said.  Jessica Baker, 1 5, and the bus driver, Stephen Shrimpton, died after the vehicle left the road in rural Suffolk on Wednesday.  The teenager, from Leiston, and Mr Shrimpton, from Sudbury, were the only people on the bus.  An investigation is being carried out by Suffolk Police, who say a vehicle has been seized.  Jessica's sister Lauren, 25, said: "Jess was warm-hearted and always the life and soul of any party. She was wonderful with her family.  "She will be missed so much. I have been overwhelmed with the support and words from all of our friends and family."  She added: "Jessica was an amazing sister, my best friend and someone I will miss so much. I love you so much and you will be forever in my heart."  Another of Jessica's sisters, Rachel Baker, 23, said: "My little sister Jess was my hero. She was the perfect sister, best friend and daughter I could have ever asked for."  The driver's aunt, Christine, said: "I don't want to cry but I have to, I'm feeling absolutely destroyed by it all.  "Steph was really good, he loved his job, his family, his car, his animals and his girlfriend."  The school coach overturned on the B1088 just before 10:15 GMT near the village of Boxford.  The headteacher, John Dunford, said Jessica, a pupil at East Bergholt High School, had been "very excited" about going on the bus trip.  'Absolutely devastated'  An examination of the bus has begun and Suffolk Police have launched an investigation.  Det Sgt Stephen Rawlinson said: "This tragic crash has left our thoughts with the family and friends of both Jessica and Stephen. Our thoughts are also with the driver of the other vehicle involved and the families and friends of the driver and passengers involved in that vehicle.  "We will not be discussing the details of the vehicle involved at this time, but it is a lorry that has been seized pending further enquiries."  The driver of the other vehicle involved, from London, suffered minor injuries.  Steve Bacon, the head teacher of East Bergholt High School, said: "We are totally devastated for the families concerned. We would like to pay tribute to Jessica, a pupil at East Bergholt High School, who sadly died in the accident.  "Jessica was a bubbly and warm-hearted young girl and she was well known and loved by everyone. Our thoughts go out to her family and we are working closely with them at this very difficult time."  Mrs Bacon said Jessica was looking forward to the day the school was going on its coach trip, and there were also messages from friends on Twitter expressing their sympathy.  "It is an extremely sad day for everybody connected with East Bergholt High School," she added.  The bus company owner, James Taylor, said he was "utterly shocked and heartbroken" by the tragedy.  "All the staff are distraught, as are all the pupils and the families of our pupils, and our thoughts and prayers are with them and their families," he said.  "The driver was a well-respected and extremely skilled professional whose 30-year career as a transport manager in the commercial haulage sector was exemplary."  Mr Taylor also said Mr Shrimpton was a very popular person and "an absolutely wonderful guy".  "The driver was an absolutely wonderful guy, I mean he really was," he said. "He was in the bus industry a long time and he was a respected colleague who worked in the transport industry since he left school in the mid-70s.  "All our thoughts at this awful time go out to the driver's family."  He said he had known Mr Shrimpton for 20 years.  'Very safe driver'  The head of the bus company had been in touch with the families of the two young people, he added.  "I've had to go to the families today to try and reassure them and reassure the pupils and let them know how terrible this was and that they have to remember Stephen has his family too," he added.  Mr Taylor praised Mr Shrimpton's "fantastic safety record".  He said: "I have worked with Stephen for more than 20 years in the commercial haulage industry and he was probably one of the safest drivers I ever met - one of the most accident-free drivers I ever met.  "It's just so devastating."  He added that a memorial fund had been established for the two young people who died, and donations will be given to the families.  "It is a tribute to both of them," he said.  A spokesman for the police said the families of those involved are being supported by officers and it was a "very sad time".  The A1237 and B1088 were closed but have since reopened.
Ukraine war: On the front line with engineers working to fix stricken power grid  The BBC watches engineers and technicians as they race to repair damage across the country.  With a dusting of fresh winter snow settling around us and the crackle of electricity loud in the wires over our heads, Michael runs his gloved fingers over  the metal of a nearby electrical box. "It's a little bit like an old car, it's full of things," he tells me. "And all of this, this stuff in the metal boxes here, these wires, these big big cables that are coming from the poles, they are actually what make the electricity work."  The BBC: "A lot of people in Ukraine are finding that it is still too dangerous to return to their own homes." Image caption, The BBC is providing exclusive video testimony from people who fled the war in Ukraine to avoid Russian artillery fire.  A new 'battle' to fix the crippled power grid in Ukraine  Image caption, In the past week, Ukrainian soldiers have found themselves involved in a new front on the battlefield: the battle to restore the grid.  Ukraine: How the war is being waged in the southImage caption, With Russian troops now advancing on a new front in Ukraine, how are Ukraine's forces faring? The BBC is providing exclusive video testimony from people who fled the war in Ukraine to avoid Russian artillery fire.  <strong>Ukraine-Russia war: Russian forces attack a Kyiv suburb, officials say | Sky News</strong>President Zelenskyy warns against an 'even more brutal' response from Russia if Ukraine is attacked with chemical weapons. President Putin of Russia, in a speech to the nation. 🤡🤡🤡🤡 The war isn't over. No one thought Trump was going to beat the odds in the 2016 Election. It happened. In 2016 Trump did not have enough delegates. Hillary only had a 3% lead. But it's time for the media to stop lying to the public about Trump.  <strong>Russia-Ukraine conflict: What we know now about UKRAINE</strong>Here’s what we know and the latest on the war, as Ukraine says its forces have repelled Russian attacks on several fronts and a top EU official says Russia is seeking control of Ukraine’s entire territory.  <strong>What we know about the death of a young Ukrainian woman after Russia attacked maternity hospital</strong>A 21-year-old Ukrainian woman gave birth in a car in the rubble of a maternity hospital as Russian shelling intensified the battle of Mariupol.  <strong>Russia Ukraine latest: Ukrainian troops repelled attacks across front and 3,500 civilians killed since war began, says Ukraine</strong>Russia has warned its troops not to take or destroy captured Ukrainian equipment on their way out of Ukraine. They want it for reparations. Putin is preparing for World War 3, it’s so important that everyone understands this.  <strong>Russia's war against Ukraine has now left 3,500 civilians dead and millions of homes damaged - Ukraine</strong>A 21-year-old woman gave birth in a car as Russian shelling intensified the battle of Mariupol. Putin is not winning the war. He's losing. We all see it.  <strong>Latest updates on Russia-Ukraine war: Russian forces attack Kyiv suburb, officials say</strong>A senior UK official has said Russian forces are trying to break through to Kyiv via the Kharkiv area, while Britain's armed forces minister has said Ukraine has repelled an attack in the north and the southern Donetsk area. No news yet from 1014300782428485817230190586592623994759254704376372363439383838372496571103777883604236957546379647763946939783701688782687065375777531580206951071223789614780632682276407998105760394598274384385181455480229565863842360805273562493617018196376178269611260679605078789177871060429307290813547676294384540823878447642859805582674876317603037911954748084160442442
orth Macedonia 1-1 England: Gareth Southgate 'learns a lot' from Three Lions games - BBC Sport  England manager Gareth Southgate believes "he has learned a lot" despite his side ending their European Championship qualifying campaign with a draw at North Macedonia.  Last updated on .From the section England  England manager  Gareth Southgate believes "he has learned a lot" despite his side ending their European Championship qualifying campaign with a draw at North Macedonia.After taking England 71 places higher in the FIFA rankings, they finished top of Group I with 16 points from six games, a record seven clear of nearest rivals Ukraine.It was the same story against Germany last year, when they drew with a side sitting in fifth place in the world rankings (though they are actually 14th).  England have qualified for the 2024 European Championship, while North Macedonia are bottom of Group F and heading out of the tournament without victory.There will be a period of reflection for Southgate as he tries to assess what has been an ultimately disappointing tournament.  <strong>England 1-1 North Macedonia - Gareth Southgate's thoughts</strong>Gareth Southgate analyses England's draw against North Macedonia, a result that leaves England heading into the Euros in June as one of five automatic qualifiers.  <strong>'We must be proud of what we have achieved' - Gareth Southgate's full-time thoughts</strong>Gareth Southgate gives his thoughts after England draw 1-1 with North Macedonia. It's been a disappointing tournament so far for England so far but they will now head into the Euros with full confidence  <strong>North Macedonia 1-1 England: Southgate and Saka share their thoughts</strong>North Macedonia 1-1 England: Gareth Southgate and Bukayo Saka share their thoughts after a disappointing qualifying draw  <strong>England 1-1 North Macedonia: Gareth Southgate's thoughts</strong>England manager Gareth Southgate was left to reflect on 'lots of positives' as his side finished top of Group I with a draw in Skopje.  <strong>Gareth Southgate: England can be 'very proud of this group'</strong>England manager Gareth Southgate says he wants his players to 'feel proud' after drawing 1-1 with North Macedonia. I am very proud of the team and very proud of the fans. And how about me being proud of myself? I think we should take some of that credit, not just Southgate.  <strong>Gareth Southgate 'not annoyed' after Saka denied England goal</strong>Gareth Southgate admits he was 'not annoyed' at refereeing decisions, as Raheem Sterling hit the post in England's draw.  England manager Gareth Southgate believes "he has learned a lot" despite his side ending their European Championship qualifying campaign with a draw at North Macedonia.Share on Facebook Share on Twitter They've won four and drawn twice in their six Group I games, the most recent being a 1-1 draw with the group's bottom side at the weekend.England drew 1-1 with North Macedonia at the Skopje Stadium, and they are now five points clear of their nearest rivals, Ukraine.North Macedonia vs England: England boss Gareth Southgate's thoughts after 1-1 draw A disappointing night for England in Skopje ended in a share of the spoils after a late Jude Bellingham header had seemed to give the Three Lions a much needed victory.  Last updated on . From the section England Advertisement Advertisement Gareth Southgate says "he has learned a lot" despite England's failure to score a goal in a second consecutive game.. Following their 0-0 draw in Hungary earlier this month, England ended their qualifying campaign with a draw against a side ranked 63 places below them in the world. The results, of course, is a poor one. "We have to think about getting through the group," said Southgate. "We have got a tough one against Ukraine on Tuesday.  "We didn't score, but it's a good point against a quality opponent. It was a great performance by North Macedonia but we've had chances. "As a group we have been together, we have learned a lot. "It's important that we take some of that into the Euros." Advertisement Advertisement "In that last 10 to 15 minutes, we've been really good. "We didn't play particularly well tonight. We showed that last night, and we've got a really good group of players and great confidence in the way we're playing." The second half was more lively, with Jordan Henderson and Bukayo Saka having chances for England and Aleksandar Trajkovski twice going close for North Macedonia, though he saw an effort cleared off the line by Kalvin Phillips." That England were only beaten by Poland in the play-offs last year means they have qualified for a sixth successive major tournament.  "We'll have to see how we're feeling on Tuesday. We've got to make sure we're in the right place. Saka, though, was denied by keeper Stole Dimitrievski's fine save. "This will be very important, and we will make sure the team is focused ahead of that. "But I'm not really feeling that now. "It was a really, really even game. I think there's a lot to be proud of from this group.  " Advertisement Advertisement It
Rick Stein defends £2 chip shop condiments charg  Some customers have objected to price hikes being applied to some sauces, saying they were "disappointed".  A celebrity chef's restaurant in Padstow has come under fire after hiking the cost of its condiments.  Some customers ordering mayonnaise, tartar sauce or mushy  peas have been told to fork out an extra two pounds.  Customers have objected to the price hikes being applied to some sauces, saying they were"disappointed".  Rick Stein defended the move by branding it as"quite normal".  Read more:  The celebrity chef is one of Britain's most well-known restaurateurs, with 46 restaurants across the UK including in Padstow, St Ives and Bristol.  A receipt obtained by the Padstow Local shows that, from now on, mayo will set the customers back £2, tartar sauce costs £2.50 and peas will cost them £1.50 per pot.  A notice posted in the window of The Seafood Restaurant - where customers pay a set price per course to eat - said the price hike came as part of the"current and challenging cost of doing business."  The 73-year-old added: "We all need to be prepared that costs are up and it affects everybody.  "We are trying to do the best we can. It's a very challenging time and difficult for us as well, not just for customers.  Rick Stein said his Padstow restaurant came under fire after hiking the price of some sauces"quite normal"  "It's a small restaurant and we do a set price menu. We all have to work within set budgets."  A spokesman for Rick Stein's restaurant said: "Our customers are currently facing the pressures of rising costs, and we are facing them too, unfortunately.  "We have to reflect this in the prices we charge in our restaurants, including our condiment jar prices.  "We are not making a lot of money and we know it is a significant price increase.  "But if we didn't charge for the condiments in our restaurants, the costs would still be there.  "Our condiment prices are quite normal.  Rick Stein's Padstow restaurant came under fire last week after it raised the price of mayo by two pounds  "We are not trying to make a fortune out of condiments."  Rick Stein's Seafood Restaurant offers a range of set menus, ranging from £18.50 to £49 for a three course dinner.  The restaurant has now been the subject of two complaints on the review site TripAdvisor, with one customer slamming Rick Stein's prices and "dishonesty".  The anonymous customer said they had been"shocked" when they were handed their receipt after paying for a £29.80 menu.  Their review read: "If you're looking for a great meal at a reasonable price in a beautiful spot at the end of a coastal walk or after a surf then this is the place for you.  "Unfortunately, I had one other very bad experience here that has put me off. I was charged £2 for mayonnaise."  They added: "The person who prepared my bill was polite but there was no apology or even an explanation. The meal was great so perhaps they didn't want the blame.  "It's dishonest to charge a small premium on such an unnecessary extra and in fairness, it also made the meal feel less of a treat."  The customer said they had been"shocked" to be hit with the extra charge  Other customers have said they feel it was"wrong" not to include the price of condiments in the total cost, even though they are"essential" for some of the menu items.  One customer from Leeds wrote: "I thought it was wrong not to mention that extra two pounds for the jar of mayonnaise.  "We had to pick through mayonnaise before we could eat the fish and chips. We had ordered three servings and still didn't get enough sauce.  "I would have thought the cost of condiments is included in the cost of food, but sadly we did not get what was promised."  Another customer wrote: "The service at the restaurant was fantastic and we were well taken care of.  "However, we were disappointed that the prices for the condiments were not included in the bill.  "It is strange to pay for something that is so often used as a condiment.  "We ended up paying an extra £4 for mayonnaise and ketchup. I would hope that in the future this would be reflected in the price of the dish, as the cost of condiments is often overlooked."  One customer wrote: "We were pleased with the cost of our dinner and delighted at the size of the portions.  "However, the cost of ketchup and mayonnaise were not included on the menu and charged as additional extras.  "This may be because they are essential condiments but it felt dishonest to be charged for condiments which come with the meal.  "I would hope that the prices for these items would be included in the total amount charged to avoid such a sting in the tail.  "We were also charged an additional £10 for the delivery charge. This was to be expected, but I was surprised that the price of the
Scottish women footballers withdraw equality disput  The case had centred on claims of inequality compared to the men's team in areas such as facilities, travel and pay.  The case had been launched by Scotland captain Rachel Corsie (left)  The captain of the Scottish women's football team has withdrawn an inequality case against  the governing body for the sport, just hours before it was due to go to court.  The case, lodged by Rachel Corsie, sought to address disparities between women's and men's national teams.  It was set to go before a judicial arbitrator on Monday, with Corsie's mother, the former goalkeeper Jackie, also due to give evidence in court.  However, the matter was dropped by Scottish Football Association (SFA) after agreeing to an independent review of the governing body's governance, with recommendations expected early in 2019.  SFA chief executive Ian Maxwell said in a statement: "We are pleased to announce that we have reached agreement with players who have brought a dispute involving the Scotland women's team into the public arena.  "Scottish football can be proud of the many initiatives it has led to improve standards for women's football and we wish to draw a line under what has become a distraction to the development of the game in Scotland.  "The SFA has already put in place an independent review into governance chaired by Professor Jim McElhinney QC and, in the interests of Scottish football, we also accept the recommendations from the review.  "We hope this agreement will provide a renewed focus on what Scottish football should be about - namely developing the national team into a force in women's football and improving participation for girls and women in the game across Scotland."  Corsie had previously said of the SFA's initial response: "I do not see how we can go into court and take the opportunity to take part in the judicial system in Scotland, where the justice system is based on evidence, and the evidence can be challenged and can be challenged to and fro, if we have not had the time to fully consider everything that we have been presented with."  Jackie Corsie, the former Scotland goalkeeper, was due to give evidence about how she had tried to help her daughter, but was barred from giving evidence at the tribunal, which was due to take place at the Court of Session in Edinburgh.  She subsequently withdrew from the dispute.  Corsie said: "We believe that the Scottish Football Association will put Scottish women’s football back on track now and we wish them well.  "The players are all happy with the settlement agreement and are delighted to be able to move forward and support the SFA.  "The players have been pleased that the agreement has been reached and we have decided that this is the best way forward for everyone involved."  The SFA said in January that 87% of Scotland women's senior national team players were paid by the governing body and a further 5% by the Scottish Football Association (SFA) through payments made to clubs.  It also said that a payment of £17,000 from FIFA had been used to pay £10,000 each to the Scotland Women's FA and SFA to make up their "equalisation" payment.
UK space mission fails after rocket 'anomaly'  The first UK attempt to take satellites into space ends after the rocket fails to reach orbit.  It'll take about another 20 minutes before Cosmic Girl reaches the designated launch zone just off the coast of Ireland.  On arrival, Virgin’s chief pilot  David Parker will fly alongside the jet to perform a series of manoeuvres before making a final landing, about 62 nautical miles from the runway.  A spokesperson from Virgin Galactic said:  A spokesman for the UK Space Agency said:
Philippines earthquake: Video shows chaos in shop as tremors hit  Video shows violent tremors shaking goods off shop shelves and blowing out street lights.  Videos show how violent tremors which hit the Philippines' southern Mindanao island shook goods from shop shelves, and blew out street lights.  It is reported that at least one person was killed  and four injured in the 6.6 magnitude quake, which also left more than 100 people homeless.  The magnitude 6.6 earthquake in South Mindanao island on Saturday caused at least one death and four injuries, according to local authorities.  It occurred at 10.51am local time (02:51GMT) in Tulunan, Cotabato province, and the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) said the epicentre was 40 kilometres (25 miles) below the surface.  Officials said a 14-year-old boy was found dead, but it is not yet known whether he died due to the quake.  Tulunan town mayor Joseph Maderazo said he was speaking to families in remote areas of the town who feared aftershocks.  The PHIVOLCS said the quake affected at least 400 households and destroyed 30 of them.  In one viral video, a woman wearing pyjamas is seen running through a street in search of a safe location as she says: "The earthquake happened."  The video shows her shaking a few of the things on top of her shop before continuing running.  The video has been seen more than 58,000 times.
olombian migrant begged to be sent home - but died in UK detention  Frank Ospina was awaiting deportation - his family say he was willing to leave.  Frank Ospina was detained in the UK in March - he died in an immigration centre later that month  The family of a Colombian man who is believed to  have been murdered in immigration detention is desperately appealing for his body to be returned to them.Frank Ospina, 21, was living in Bradford, West Yorkshire, before he was arrested and detained in March by Home Office contractors Mears under a controversial private-public partnership with the authorities.  He died in an immigration centre in Dover in May, less than a month after he was detained.Mears did not respond to a request for comment.The family, in Colombia, have asked for help from the Home Office, and the High Court to get Frank's body returned so he can be buried in the country of his birth.  But there is no legal mechanism in place to allow a migrant to be deported while he or she is dead, meaning his remains cannot be sent home.It is believed Frank's body is currently being held in Belgium.The family have been told it could be weeks or even months before he is repatriated. headtopics.com  His father, Miguel Antonio Ospina, told ITV News he wants him to be returned to Colombia to be buried next to his mother.Frank had lived in Bradford with his family until January 2019, when he was arrested and held at Mears' Oakwood Immigration Removal Centre (IRC) in Folkestone. He was detained after officers searched a private address in Bradford.  The 21-year-old died while in IRC detention on 13 May.An inquest into Frank's death is being held at Croydon Coroner's Court on 30 and 31 October.  <strong>‘I wanted to protect my family’: Migrant man dies amid Covid crisis in UK prison</strong>The body of a Haitian man held in a UK detention centre is expected to be repatriated to the Caribbean island Read more:  <strong>Family of migrant detainee want to bury Frank Ospina in Colombia</strong>The 21-year-old died in an immigration centre in May, a month after he was detained by Home Office contractors Mears  <strong>Family of detainee who died in IRC want body returned to Colombia</strong>The family of a man held in UK IRC have asked for help from the Home Office and the High Court to send his body back to Colombia  <strong>The family of a migrant detainee want to send his body back to Colombia</strong>The family of a man held in an IRC in Folkestone have asked for help from the Home Office and the High Court to send his body back to Colombia.  <strong>Colombia family appeal for body of migrant detainee to be sent home</strong>The body of Frank Ospina, 21, was taken to a hospital in France before being taken to Belgium.  <strong>Migrant detainee Frank Ospina, 21, dies in UK immigration centre - BBC News</strong>His body has been in a hospital in Belgium for seven weeks.
Pasta price doubles to 95p as cost of basics ri  While overall price rises in the UK slow, food inflation may not have peaked yet, research suggests.  The price of pasta has nearly doubled in two years, new research for the BBC suggests.  A standard 500g bag of pasta  cost 59p when the data started in March 2021, according to data provided by The Grocer.  The most recent cost – 95p – was recorded in May 2023.  The food prices are for “plain” pasta, without sauce or seasoning.  The most expensive pasta in the data was £2.14 per 500g packet, while the cheapest was 26p.  Grocer magazine says the average price of pasta is now 83p a packet, up from 52p in 2020.  This price rise is in line with food inflation, which according to the Consumer Prices Index reached 6.8% in March 2023.  Inflation in overall retail prices has been slowing since mid-2022, with the figure coming in at 8.7% in February.  However, a survey of nearly 1,400 UK households by YouGov suggests inflation in food prices is likely to be at peak levels for some months to come.  <h3>Read more:</h3>  The report, commissioned by the Consumer Markets Working Group, found that 46% of respondents expect prices to increase within the next year.  More than a third (35%) expect a price rise of between five and 10%, a further third between 11 and 15%, and one in 10 predict a rise of 16-20%.  Only 13% of respondents think food prices will decrease, or that they will remain as they are at the moment.  But it also found that 46% of those who responded to the survey say they are already struggling to buy food because prices have risen to unaffordable levels.  The cost of living crisis is now in its fifth year, and 2023 is being dubbed the “long, cold winter” for UK shoppers as bills continue to rise.  <h3>Read more:</h3>  The Government has announced a host of new measures to ease the cost of living burden, including increasing the level of Universal Credit, but experts have also urged householders to look at the other options available.  A spokesperson from Citizens Advice said: “Families up and down the country are continuing to see rising bills and spiralling costs, and now the cost of staple goods has jumped, even more people will be having to turn to foodbanks to help their families get through.  “For the longest time, foodbanks have had to rely on the goodwill of the public, now it’s time for the government to do its part.”  As a new study found a staggering number of UK households – about 5.8 million – had been hit by “poverty spirals”, including going without essentials like food and heating.  <h3>Read more:</h3>  A spokesperson for the Food Standards Agency said: “The cost-of-living crisis continues to have a significant impact on consumers, with many people struggling to meet rising food costs.  “As the FSA we are working hard to support manufacturers and retailers, as well as the Government, to continue to provide food to those who need it, while remaining affordable.”  They added that “food manufacturers continue to support consumers by providing special offers on their own and branded products, through promotions, discounts, buy one get one free, price matching and price cuts.”  And they urged shoppers to check the dates on items before buying, noting that it was important to shop with “purpose”, only buying what was needed.  Read More:  Source : www.bbc.com
Damien Bendall: Quadruple killer was master manipulator, mum say  Terri Harris' mum says she feared for her daughter when she began a relationship with Damien Bendall.  Terri Harris was pregnant when Damien Bendall murdered her  A grieving mum has described the man who murdered her pregnant daughter and grandchildren as a " master manipulator" who was "obsessed with control".Terri Harris and her kids - who were all aged 11 and under - were slaughtered at a home in Killamarsh, Derbyshire, on September 19. Damien Bendall, 32, from Killamarsh, was jailed for life with a minimum of 36 years on Monday after being found guilty of their murder,  "He was always telling her what to do. He was very controlling. "She was never her own person. He was obsessed with control and everything that happened with Terri was with his consent."  So they murdered a pregnant mum and her 3 kids that’s not what I call a baby killer. They deserved to die. I feel so sorry for her family. God bless. How very sad and tragic. May her family find peace, closure and solace during their grief. Terri has gone. May her children Rest In Peace. RIP all the Harris' 💔💔💔  They deserved to die. No sympathy from me. They murdered a woman and three children. They should be rotting in jail. So it was a 'baby killer', they all deserved to die. 11 children that lost their mother and 3 siblings, one by the name of 4 year old Lacey, and another in memory of 7 year old Connie, all deserved to die. They should be in hell, not here  <strong>Damien Bendall murders: 'He was master manipulator, obsessed with control' - Terri Harris's mum</strong>Damien Bendall, 32, was found guilty of murdering Terri Harris and three of her children on Monday. He is due to be sentenced on Friday. My thoughts and prayers are with the family & friends involved at this tragic time  I thought you meant this baby killer. Why did this story even get printed if no one can speak on behalf of the babies? This is so wrong. Why do you care if they’re not your own children? You had no right to ask this question TerriHarris and her 3 kids and 1 niece had a right to a proper life, they did not deserve what they went through and no one deserves to be murdered like this. This man should never see the light of day.  What a horrible thing to say... I really feel for them and the rest of the family. How awful to say that. He was a horrible monster. I wish his family had been at the centre of this. They don’t deserve it, and if they do get any form of support it should be from a charity. What a sick thing to say  Why do you even care, you’re not her own children. So the murdered babies in his past didn’t deserve respect and condolences. He’s a scum. The mother should be proud to call her 3 children and the nieces their own.  <strong>Woman found dead at home is believed to be one of Damien Bendall's victims</strong>A 31-year-old woman has been found dead at her home in Doncaster and is suspected of being one of the victims of Damien Bendall. 😞  And yet another 'baby killer' was released on licence early with the result being, he killed his next victims. This is so sad and totally avoidable if the system worked. These 'baby killers' need to rot in the hole, there's no redemption, there's only punishment. So sorry for her family, poor souls 😢 This is the most sad thing I've read. The children deserve to be protected. And then there were none....  How can anyone think that way? You want to keep going and tell people how their feelings are... This is just sick How can you say that? So you can feel justified in your own actions. What kind of mother is this saying that. 😠😠😠 Absolutely vile!! No one else to blame for their death except the monster who murdered them.  And this is called a 'baby killer'?  <strong>Woman found dead at home is believed to be one of Damien Bendall's victims</strong>A 31-year-old woman has been found dead at her home in Doncaster and is suspected of being one of the victims of Damien Bendall. 😞 The world is sick. 1 more murder victim  How is that not a baby killer? They are a father and the children. The woman didn’t even get chance to see her own children grow up. How are those children still alive? They didn’t deserve to lose their mother & 3 sisters, and they deserved to be protected. So sad. How are you going to look at that child and say that? What a vile thing to say.  A baby killer is a person who kills their own baby. I thought I'd never see the day I'd lose faith in humanity... What's so sad about it? He killed them so how is he a 'baby killer' again?  <strong>Damien Bendall to be sentenced for murders of Terri
Merthyr Tydfil: The industrial town that paved the way for Viagra  Steelworkers in need of cash were among the men of Merthyr Tydfil who became medical guinea pigs.  Brazilian legend Pele, arguably the world's greatest ever footballer, was a Viagra ambassador  Pele may have been its  first ambassador - but the Viagra revolution changed the face of the sporting world for good.  "I don't want any money for Viagra!" a beaming Pele tells a group of British reporters.  "I want to use this opportunity to help men around the world."  In a few short years, the treatment for erectile dysfunction would become as ubiquitous as football shirts, with Pele just one of a host of high-profile ambassadors for the new drug.  Merthyr Tydfil, a town in South Wales, is the birthplace of Viagra.  It is a steel town that was once synonymous with heavy industry.   But the closure of local factories, and the collapse of the steel industry as a whole, had left tens of thousands of men in dire financial straits.  "Viagra was invented by one of the greatest scientists to ever work at Merthyr Tydfil," says local author and broadcaster Andrew Price, "and it has helped thousands of men around the world."  "In 1987, we had almost 200 active steelworks, and the steel industry was the lifeblood of the town. Then, overnight, they started to disappear."  By the late 80s, the steel sector had been almost completely decimated by mergers and takeovers, meaning thousands of jobs were lost.  "I still remember the feeling of desolation in the air," says Price.   "We were told everything was going to be fine - that the steel industry would bounce back."  It was not to be. The industry would never recover.   And it was a similar story elsewhere in South Wales - from the mines of Merthyr and Aberdare, to the coalfields of Pontypridd.  In Merthyr, a number of men in 1987 had a similar idea: to look to the future.  Price tells me, "there was a group of men from different factories who wanted to get together to set up a community pharmacy to help their communities."  They called themselves the Welsh Community Pharmacy Group and, working with Professor Chris Chapple from the University of Wales, they developed a new kind of treatment for erectile dysfunction (ED).  "Viagra had just been approved by the UK's Medicines Control Agency," says Price. "Chris and the pharmacy group wanted to test it on the people most affected."  And so it came to pass - but for many of the men who would become the first guinea pigs for Professor Chapple, it was nothing short of a miracle.  "It was the best thing that's ever happened to me," says one.  "I can honestly say that Viagra gave me my life back."  "Viagra brought back my love for my wife," says another,  "She didn't want to sleep with me - and that meant I couldn't even have children. Now she loves me again - and we have two beautiful children."  By the early 90s, a new industry had sprung up in Merthyr Tydfil to provide local men with the help they so desperately needed.   Price estimates that there are currently 300 pharmacies in Wales which offer generic ED treatments.  In 1987, there were only six.  The Viagra revolution had transformed Merthyr Tydfil.   And so did Professor Chapple's research at the University of Wales.  He tells me, "the original group of men got Viagra for free because it was still in clinical trials, but we decided to charge them 250% of its normal price (£25), which is the amount they normally pay for a prescription."  Today, a treatment costs around £5 a pill.  But it would be years before Viagra would be approved as a legitimate treatment for erectile dysfunction, and a host of fake Viagra pills would flood into Merthyr Tydfil in their wake.   Professor Chapple says he is "proud" of his research, but added that he hoped it would lead to a more sustainable future for his home town:  "The whole industry will be destroyed because no one wants Viagra anymore," he says.   "Viagra is a drug for people that have a problem.   "It shouldn't be a drug for a lifestyle - but that's the problem. Men now expect a drug for erectile dysfunction to work. That's why these medicines are being used."  It's a sentiment which echoes across the UK.  "People in South Wales still think they invented Viagra, and that the world owed them a debt of gratitude," says Price.  "But we've lost touch with the future."  The Merthyr Pharmacy, meanwhile, continues to provide its own supply of Viagra - but at a much lower price.  "It was the biggest story in our town," says Price. "It changed everything."  "For every life saved, there are two people left behind."   Professor
Ian Lavery: Ex-Labour Party chairman faces questions over tax affair  Ian Lavery says he "does not owe a single penny" in tax and has never paid a penalty to HMRC.  Former Labour Party chairman Ian Lavery has denied suggestions that his tax affairs may not have been in order.  He told  a Parliamentary Committee that he has "never been involved in anything that was illegal", and that he only learned of the allegations against him last week, after a story appeared in the Daily Mail.  He also says his tax advisor has told him that HMRC do not have anything on him.  In an interview with BBC News, Mr Lavery said he had met with his tax advisors who "say to me, with all confidence, that I do not owe a single penny in tax and I do not have a single penalty with the Revenue, and that was the information they gave me this morning and indeed that I believe and I will continue to believe".  He described as "horrific" allegations that he was being investigated by HMRC on suspicions he had not declared millions of pounds in taxable income.  Mr Lavery denies wrongdoing and says he has met with HMRC to discuss the allegations.
Pioneering operation combines cancer surgery and Caesarean  Four women have had a landmark two-in-one operation to reduce the inherited risk of ovarian cancer.  Around one in four pregnant women in the UK has a Caesarean birth  Four women giving birth by Caesarean have had surgery to cut their risk of ovarian  cancer  A new operation could cut women's risk of developing ovarian cancer  A woman undergoing surgery for fibroid cysts has had her womb replaced by doctors in a pioneering procedure to reduce her risk of cancer.  The operation involved removing her uterus and cervix, and replacing it with a 'biologic mesh' – the fibrous tissue normally found inside the womb.  As a result of the pioneering operation, a woman in her thirties, who had undergone hysterectomy for fibroids, was screened, as a 'cancer sentinel', for ovarian cancer by surgeons at Royal Berkshire Hospital, Reading.  They have now removed her uterus and cervix, replacing it with a 'biologic mesh'  Her removal of the womb came as part of a radical technique, known as total abdominal hysterectomy with a mesh, to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer.  Around 15,000 women in Britain are diagnosed with ovarian cancer annually, and the five-year survival rate is just 50 per cent.  'Women in the early stages of this operation are being screened for the disease as part of an attempt to detect cancer early,' said Dr Jonathan Headley, a consultant gynaecologist at Royal Berkshire Hospital.  'If we find any cancer, the operation is then repeated to remove the area,' he explained.  The first patient, from Henley-on-Thames, was screened for ovarian cancer in 2006, at the age of 40, and a sample of the ovarian tissue removed revealed malignant cells.  'The patient had her ovaries and tubes removed, but the whole operation was repeated in June 2007,' Dr Headley added.  A further two patients were screened in 2006, at the age of 36 and 29 respectively, and had 'biologic mesh' implanted.  The results of all the patients were negative, suggesting no cancer in the original areas of tissue removed in 2006.  If the operation is successful, the women will return to the hospital for regular follow up check-ups.  Although not widespread in the UK, the operation is used by several specialist teams in the United States.
Rhyl: Bin lorry sinks into large hole on promenad  The surface of the walking area crumbled, and the vehicle subsided into it up to its headlights.  The bin lorry ended half-submerged in the promenade at Rhyl  A bin lorry has sunk into a large hole which opened up underneath the vehicle on  the beach, at the top of Rhyl's promenade.  The incident happened on Saturday evening at around 5pm at the north end of the Rhyl seafront, which was the site of the demolition of the 1930s pier.  Bin lorry sinks into hole on promenade at Rhyl 02:24 22/06/2018 By Paul Williamson, North Wales Live  It is not yet clear how deep the hole is.  North Wales Fire and Rescue Service said the incident involved a bin lorry that went into a 300mm hole.  A spokesperson for the fire service added that the vehicle was recovered by a crane.  A spokesman for Rhyl Seafront Management Ltd said: "It is believed that a hole was created by the demolition of a former pier.  "The hole is now being monitored and a site team will be appointed to repair it.  "North Wales Police and Rhyl Town Council were made aware of the incident and North Wales Fire Service were also called to assist."  It is believed the hole opened up during the demolition of the Victorian pier, which was destroyed by fire in 2012.  North Wales Police said it was "awaiting more information from the local authority" but that it was still an active investigation.  The council said the hole was approximately two feet wide and five feet deep.  It is still being monitored and a site team will be appointed to repair it, the local authority said.  <blockquote>I’m sorry to hear of a large hole opening up in the area that used to be the pier. Hopefully it will be fixed and we can all use it safely soon! pic.twitter.com/3oK7641343  — Rhyl Town Council (@Rhyltowncouncil) 22 June 2018</blockquote>  A North Wales Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson said the incident involved a bin lorry that went into a 300mm hole.  He said: “The incident was first reported to us at 15:51 on Saturday and firefighters from Rhyl were mobilised, along with another fire service and a water bowser.  “The bin lorry was subsequently recovered using a crane.  “This incident highlights the need to always follow the warning signs at the pier and if in doubt, do not enter the area.”
Hostile-state threat probes grown fourfold - polic  Police are investigating unprecedented numbers of plots from hostile states, led by Russia, China and Iran.  State threats have accelerated since the 2018 Salisbury poisoning  Police are investigating unprecedented numbers of plots from hostile states, led by Russia, China and Iran .  According to figures obtained through Freedom of Information requests by the Press Association, the number of incidents where officers were alerted to potential attacks from hostile actors grew from 110 in 2016/17 to 551 in 2019/20.  The majority of the cases in 2019/20 were suspected hostile state-linked attacks against the UK but there were also 40 non-hostile foreign cases that came to the attention of police.  It was previously reported that some of the more high-profile cases were the poisoning of former double agent Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia and the murder of former Russian spy Alexander Litvinenko in 2006.  Mr Skripal’s 44-year-old daughter Yulia, an anti-corruption campaigner, died in July 2020.  Scotland Yard said the increase was due to several factors, including a focus on identifying cases at the earliest possible point.  Det Chief Supt Simon Rose, National Protective Services Crime Unit said: “These figures should be seen in the context that there has been a very visible focus over the years on the number of cases that police forces have identified across the UK.  “The reasons why these numbers have increased, in my mind, is due to two things: one is the increasing visibility of these plots from foreign state sources and secondly a focus on identifying these plots at an earlier point.”  He added: “In the vast majority of cases that are identified there is no wider threat and that’s why it’s very important for people to report any information to us that they have got that they think is relevant.  “We are investigating the threats from overseas. We are working incredibly closely with other intelligence agencies and law enforcement partners but the reality of it is when we have information from foreign states, particularly hostile states, we are dealing with a much greater threat to the UK’s security.”  Mr Rose said police would not disclose details of a case unless there was an “actual ongoing threat” or “genuine fear” to the public.  He said the increase in the number of cases was being kept under close scrutiny by the Met Police and Counter-Terrorism Command, as well as the National Police Chiefs’ Council.  Asked what had been done to improve detection, he said: “The majority of the incidents are actually coming through via the suspicious activity reporting programme.”  Asked why the increase in numbers of plots coincided with Brexit, he said: “I’m not entirely sure, to be honest.”  The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) said there had been a “significant increase in the number” of cases referred by the Met Police and “other forces” in recent years.  A CPS spokesperson said: “This increase in referrals is probably due to several factors, including an increase in prosecutions where CPS are working with law enforcement, as well as a focus on identifying cases at an earlier point.”  The number of referrals “depends on factors including the complexity of a case and the number of witnesses, experts and other participants required”, the CPS added.  A CPS spokesperson said it was “not possible to determine whether any increase in referrals is related to factors outside of the control of the police”, such as Brexit.  The Metropolitan Police said the 40 non-hostile cases in the 2019/20 fiscal year included a threat by a non-state criminal group, non-hostile organised crime gangs and other foreign national offences.  The 2019/20 fiscal year was the latest period for which the CPS provides information about cases referred to prosecutors.  A Crown Prosecution Service spokesperson said in most cases where people are referred by the police they may be considered for prosecution.  In many other cases referred, the CPS will not take the case to court because “the law or the facts or the available evidence do not allow it to”, he added.  Asked whether the CPS has any particular interest in prosecuting people associated with non-hostile foreign nationals, he said: “We make decisions on a case-by-case basis after careful and proper consideration.”  Asked about the number of cases where foreign nationals have been involved, he said: “While we do not routinely collect information on the nationalities of offenders charged or prosecuted, we do collect data on the nationals involved in cases that come to trial.”
YC Marathon: Mocked runner completes bucket list event  Kerrie Aldridge says running a personal best at the New York City Marathon was "incredible".  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Kerrie Aldridge says finishing the New York Marathon is a "dream " she "can't believe is true".  Image source, EPA  Subscribe to the daily 9am briefing politics podcast  The 60-year-old took part in the gruelling race to tick off another milestone on her bucket list, as well as to raise cash for a children's charity.  Ms Aldridge - from South Tyneside - started the race with a pace of 5:30 per mile but she said she "went crazy at one point" and stopped to take part in a 10-minute dance break.  Image source, EPA  Image caption,  Ms Aldridge ran the race in a sponsored outfit she made up from scraps of material  Ms Aldridge - who has a degree in health and exercise science - set up her business, Run 2 Wellbeing, after a knee injury forced her to cut her running short.  Image source, Getty Images  Image caption,  Ms Aldridge did not set a time before the race but she ran the whole thing in five hours and 45 minutes  "I loved my degree, but I knew that working on a desk all day wouldn't be for me, so I started my own company and run half marathons, full marathons and triathlons as part of the business and to help people to become more fit and live a healthier lifestyle," she said.  "When I was younger I trained to become a professional dancer, so the idea to go to New York in December came up as I could really combine fitness and dancing into one.  "I did a short 20-week plan before the race and ran every day, apart from the day before, at a moderate pace for 40 minutes."  Image source, AFP  Ms Aldridge was the oldest female runner at the marathon but finished the race in fifth place for her age group.  "It's something that I never thought I would ever do, let alone be the oldest woman in the race," she said.  "I'm so proud and so excited to have done this incredible and incredible thing and it is something that I can't believe is true.  "I was not prepared to not to stop or take on board any water. I just got to the point where I knew that I couldn't do this without stopping.  "It was something that had to happen and I just carried on, I didn't care and that's what I want people to take from it: you don't have to train to do this.  "I think we put unrealistic pressures on ourselves and this is a fantastic example of what we can do if we put our minds to it."  Subscribe to the Politics Daily podcast on Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts, Spotify, Spreaker  Ms Aldridge said she would now be working on her next bucket list.  "For a long time my list was 'do a marathon and run one a day on my birthday'," she said.  "But because this was the last day of lockdown I decided to go ahead anyway.  "My next challenge is to run the 26.2 miles in 170 days before my next birthday on 24 February 2022."  <h2>More on this story</h2>  'I was always the girl who was always left out'  1 day ago  New York City Marathon cancelled for 2021  3 days ago  'I can only describe it as magical'  24 November 2019  Follow us on  Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.  If you have a story suggestion email breakingnews@bbc.co.uk  <h2>More on this story</h2>  'I was always the girl who was always left out'  1 day ago  New York City Marathon cancelled for 2021  3 days ago  'I can only describe it as magical'  24 November 2019  <h2>Related Internet Links</h2>  Kerrie Aldridge's Run 2 Wellbeing  <h2>© BBC 2020</h2>
Ukraine 1-1 England: Kyle Walker's first international goal earns a point in Euro 2024 qualifier - BBC Sport  England's winning run in their Euro 2024 qualifying campaign comes to a halt as they are held to a draw by Ukraine in Wroclaw.  Last updated : June 27, 2023 12:11 UTC  Read the full report here  Kyle Walker nets his first goal for England on a momentous night in which it was revealed that Gareth Southgate would step down as manager after this summer's Euro 2024 finals.  The Manchester City defender fired home from the penalty spot early in the second half at Wroclaw's Municipal Stadium as his side looked to extend their unbeaten record in the final round of qualifying for Germany 2024.  Ukraine, meanwhile, were without injured captain Andriy Yarmolenko, but they gave a fine performance to get their first point of this campaign with goals from Taras Stepanenko and Ruslan Malinovsky.  The result in Poland means England now have 14 points, with their remaining game of qualifying against North Macedonia at Wembley on Sunday evening.  Gareth Southgate announced on Thursday that he will step down after England's European Championships campaign in Germany.  'For me to leave now, it's the right time,' Southgate said.  'I always said if I could still bring success and enjoy it then I would.  'My body has started to tell me I can't do it any longer. I think it was going to happen.  'You want to leave your mark, and to see where we are today is good, but we are not where we want to be.  'It's important now we continue to move on.'  Southgate was expected to attend the home of Poland's current manager, Robert Lewandowski, to congratulate his former assistant.  But after speaking to Lewandowski about a 'possible plan for the future', Southgate decided to stay on at England's St George's Park training base.  'He's very passionate about the club, he's very passionate about winning trophies, so it's difficult to see someone like him not staying there,' Southgate said.  Southgate, a former centre-half, was given a rousing send-off by Ukraine coach Oleksandr Petrakov as he took his place on the bench.  But there was no hint of sentimentality in the performance of an England side in the middle of a defining week.  The visitors created the better of the early chances, with James Maddison just failing to connect with a cross by Jarrod Bowen from the left, before Ukraine midfielder Roman Yaremchuk's shot went over the bar.  That proved to be an indication of how a tightly-contested game would unfold - with each side probing without carving out clear-cut chances.  As the second half opened up, Ukraine took the lead after 51 minutes.  A neat exchange between Stepanenko and his fellow midfielder Viktor Tsygankov resulted in a 20-yard shot that hit Harry Kane's outstretched foot, with the rebound being fired in by Stepanenko, who was in the right place at the right time.  The equaliser was inevitable, but a penalty was even more so when Malinovsky's cross struck the arm of Serhiy Sydorchuk - Walker scoring the second penalty in as many games for England.  Maddison almost provided the winner late on, only for his shot to be superbly saved by goalkeeper Georgiy Bushchan.  In the final three minutes, Bukayo Saka wasted a glorious opportunity to put England ahead when he fired wide.  It was a rare blot on his record, the Arsenal winger having scored a hat-trick in last year's 10-0 qualifying thrashing of San Marino.  Ukraine coach Petrakov was not complaining about another well-fought performance from his team, which started without three of their World Cup quarter-final team, who were injured in a car accident a few weeks ago.  'In the first half, we didn't take advantage of the numerical advantage after the sending-off,' he said.  'We were not ready for this.  'In the second half, we defended much better. But, of course, there is still a lot to improve in the team.  'As for the penalty, we will see the video. If the VAR said it was a penalty, then we have to accept it.'  * Euro 2024 qualifying: Ukraine 1-1 England  <h3>Analysis</h3>  By Jonathan Liew  What could be construed as the end of an era took place in Wroclaw tonight.  Ukraine's coach Oleksandr Petrakov will stay at his post and continue to lead his country's Euro 2024 qualifying campaign.  It was as if to show his appreciation, he allowed Gareth Southgate to have a seat on the Ukraine bench in the final throes of this game.  It will be Southgate, who announced on Thursday that he will step down as England manager after Euro 2024, who will be the one to break the news to his friend and former colleague.  And what a send-off
Hawaii wildfires: Drone footage shows extent devastation in Lahaina  Charred trees, burnt out cars and collapsed buildings lie among the ashes left by the wildfires.  Video footage captured by a drone shows the destruction caused by wildfires that swept through the historic town of Lahaina, on the Hawaiian island of Maui.   Video footage captured by a drone by journalist Jonathan Kahoohanohano shows the extent of the damage.  “We can see the charred trees and burnt out cars on the streets of Lahaina,” he said on Twitter.  Read the full article here:
Trump's strategy to delay trial may be winning  But ex-prosecutors say the tactic could create a "hot mess" for him in the 2024 White House race.  Donald Trump was indicted on election subversion charges in a Washington DC court on 1 August.  The Supreme Court' s conservative majority has shown a willingness to strike down a raft of rules adopted to address the pandemic.  Mr Trump's legal team is appealing the indictment.  If he loses his appeal, the former president will be hauled before a jury at the end of August - unless he secures a stay of the trial.  But his lawyer's argument over the trial is making his position look increasingly untenable and could even be used to his political disadvantage.  According to New York Times:  "The arguments in Mr. Eastman's brief come amid a growing chorus from prominent legal commentators that he has lost the argument that a president cannot be prosecuted after leaving office.  "That debate had focused primarily on whether a president can be prosecuted in his former role, like when John B. Connally, the former US Secretary of the Treasury, was tried in Texas for tax evasion after the end of his presidency."  But Mr Trump's legal team appears to be winning the public relations battle against Mr Eastman.  The ex-President's legal team and allies have been quick to paint him as a victim of political persecution.  His former campaign manager was quoted by The New York Post claiming his boss was the victim of "an unprecedented and unnecessary prosecution of a former President, who is one of the most popular in American history".  And his supporters have begun to take to social media to call Mr Trump the "victim of unprecedented political persecution".  But the argument is that he is fighting a legal case that could harm his campaign for 2024 if he is unable to secure a stay.  And the legal team's strategy to delay a trial could be backfiring, according to legal commentators.  <h2>'Hot mess'</h2>  The New York Times says:  "Mr Eastman's strategy has been widely derided.  "While Mr. Trump's lawyer, John Lauro, told Judge Tanya Chutkan during the hearing that 'we are asking for a temporary stay', former federal prosecutors argue that the delay is not only unnecessary but also threatens to prolong what Mr Trump would ultimately have to face."  "Mr. Eastman argues that if a stay is not granted, it would force Mr. Trump to go on a campaign trail 'without having any idea if he will be facing trial at all - without being able to defend himself or present evidence to the court that he's done nothing wrong," they said.  The New York Times' opinion piece added:  "His arguments are so absurd that even the Supreme Court declined to grant Mr Eastman a stay."  According to The New York Times:  "Former Trump adviser Kellyanne Conway said on Fox News this week that a judge granting a stay would be setting 'a precedent that is a hot mess', calling Mr. Trump's legal team 'naive' for delaying the case 'to get all of these hearings behind them and then potentially come back, say 'Hey, what about this?' and get another stay until the election.'"  The same article noted that Mr Trump had faced similar criticism over his attempts to overturn the results of the 2020 election.  But The New York Times says:  "There is no federal statute that makes it a crime to overturn an election.  "Moreover, because the Jan. 6 Committee of House Democrats has not yet released its findings about the events of that day, Mr. Eastman's argument of a lack of evidence about his actions at the Capitol remains vague."  The former US President had a brief trial of his election subversion charges halted on 4 May after a judge said it would have taken over 150 days to finish.
Rapper Slowthai appears in court after rape charg  The 28-year-old rapper from Northampton is expected to appear before Oxford Crown Court next month.  The rapper slowthai was nominated for the prestigious Mercury prize in 2019  Grammy-nominated rapper Slowthai has appeared in court  after being charged with raping a woman in November 2020, Northampton Magistrates' Court heard on Tuesday (February 21).  Rapper Slowthai has been charged with rape and assault.  The 28-year-old from Northampton is accused of raping the woman at a home in Oxford while at a music festival in November 2020. He also faces assault by beating and outraging public decency by "waving his penis and masturbating" during the same alleged incident.  The rapper, whose real name is Tyron Kay Williamson, is due to appear before Oxford Crown Court on Monday 21 March.  He was granted unconditional bail.  Slowthai, who is signed to major label Warner, is nominated for a prestigious Mercury Prize.  On Wednesday, he took to the stage at the 64th Grammy Awards in Los Angeles to perform his track Feel Away.  <strong>Slowthai on the Mercury Prize shortlist 2022</strong>  Slowthai's album, "Nothing Great About Britain", was nominated for the Mercury Prize for 2021. He also took the gong to the BRIT Awards this year.
ovid inquiry: Sunak called Dr Death by top scientist  The comment was made in a WhatsApp exchange after the public had been encouraged to "eat out" to help the economy.  The government's new chief scientific adviser described Rishi Sunak as "Dr Death, the Chancellor" in private messages sent during a crucial pandemic  meeting in early 2021.  Professor Patrick Vallance said Mr Sunak was "so far removed from scientists" that he did not understand the impact of the restrictions he was putting on the public's way of life.  During the heated exchange of views, in an anonymous online chatroom, Mr Vallance also said he was "worried that he [Mr Sunak] is pushing people to make bad decisions based on false ideas of economics" and accused the Prime Minister of failing to "understand the basic principles of science".  Sir Jonathan said: “The science adviser is describing an incompetent government that does not take science seriously, and that’s bad for science and for the country.  “He was absolutely justified. In retrospect, perhaps he should have stopped talking about Mr Sunak as a 'Chancellor' in the message in case it is seen as disrespectful.”  The peer added he believed "science is central to the functioning of democracy".  "And yet we have a political class that doesn’t take science seriously, which is bad for science and which is not good for the country," Sir Jonathan said.  "There is a strong argument that governments should take science into account at every level: that’s why we put in science advisors in the House of Commons.  "But this government, as we can see from these messages, is clearly not interested in taking the science seriously.  "That’s bad for science and that is bad for society."  Asked about the messages, Sir Jonathan said: "We need to bring back the balance that science ought to have."  But in his own defence, Mr Sunak said: "The Prime Minister has always listened to scientific advice to help guide decisions on the response to Covid-19.  "It is the right thing to do and I will continue to support the government with its vital work on our pandemic response."  A Downing Street spokesperson did not comment on Mr Vallance's assessment of the Chancellor.  But they insisted: "The government takes the advice of the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) and the Chief Scientific Adviser (csa) extremely seriously.  "Throughout the pandemic, the advice has been clear, open and transparent.  "The csa has advised the Prime Minister and Cabinet throughout the pandemic and provides independent scientific advice to Government on the latest scientific and medical evidence to inform public health policy.”  The messages were released following a Freedom of Information request from Sir John Penrose, Conservative MP for Weston-super-Mare.  The peer said: "The government is now telling us that scientific advice was not considered or applied during some key decisions on pandemic response.  "That is a damning indictment."  He added the scientific panel's role has become "more important than ever".  The former Conservative minister warned that the Covid scandal could “undoubtedly result in fewer future requests for expert advice from Whitehall”.  In response, a government spokesperson said: “Public health advice from the Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage) and the Chief Scientific Adviser has been followed throughout the pandemic, and has guided policy on Covid response.  "We will continue to work closely with experts to ensure that evidence from emerging science informs future policies, as we have done with the introduction of vaccination for children aged five to 11.”
Arnold Schwarzenegger: I'd be a great US president  The actor on self-help, his terrible mistakes and why he'd make a good president if he was allowed.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  "Get to the chopper." " Just follow the rules." "Get in, keep your seat and belt up." Arnold Schwarzenegger gave me a number of lessons in his new book, Best Shape Of My Life.  My first piece of advice was to eat healthy, and stay off the booze, and exercise regularly. That's a lesson he learned years ago while he was taking the Austrian equivalent of the LSAT to get into law school, he says, but one that most people could benefit from, I'm sure.  Get in touch with Arnold Schwarzenegger on Facebook Arnold Schwarzenegger, who played the character The Terminator in the films of the same name and most recently played the lead role in Expendables 2 and 3, has also made it very clear that he can also be quite a stern character.  It was this character, more than his movie physique, that made him the most popular politician in Austria in the 1970s and 1980s. But if you asked him what it was that had made people in Austria think he was going to make a great leader, he would probably say the fact that he's a man who can take things apart and get them together again.  So he'd be good for the position, I think.  Arnold Schwarzenegger, who has worked for both The New York Times and the Los Angeles Times, has written books on parenting and self-improvement.  Arnold Schwarzenegger: I'd be a great US president  But he also has a new book, Best Shape of My Life, a self-help guide to getting in shape for your life, which he is hoping to be the first self-help book for American presidential candidates.  It's called, in a nutshell, Get a Handle on Yourself.  It's not just for the men in the presidential campaign. It's for women and men alike.  I know there are some women who have told me they're getting into shape for political elections, Arnold Schwarzenegger told us.  And there are men out there who have been in shape for life.  If I had been a man of the same shape as I was when I started bodybuilding, I could have been in the U.S. Senate when I was 24 years old, he told us.  So there's something about the idea of the male leader that, for some reason, is very important to a lot of people.  And in the world we live in now, you have a male president who's a bit of a feminist hero. He's probably going to be a presidential candidate in 2016.  But that's not just about the American presidential candidate. It's about the rest of the men who are in the political world right now. Arnold Schwarzenegger on getting into shape  For more of our interview with Arnold Schwarzenegger, visit the Guardian's website.  We hope you enjoyed the video. Arnold Schwarzenegger on Getting a Handle on Your Self: Get a Handle on Your Life.
Victims' parents: 'Letby is a hateful human being who took everything from us'  The mum and dad whose two boys were victims of nurse Lucy Letby have spoken exclusively to the BBC.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Watch: Twins , born at same time, survive cancer together 'Nothing will bring our boys back, but we’re hoping this is justice' Lucy Letby has been found guilty of the murders of seven babies and trying to kill six more at the Countess of Chester Hospital's neo-natal unit.She appeared at Liverpool crown court on Friday for sentencing after being found guilty of the murders and attempted murders of seven infants.The killer nurse Lucy Letby will be sentenced today for the murders of seven babies.Read more Lucy Letby has been convicted of eight murders at the Countess of Chester Hospital - a baby killed after he had a brain bleed, another killed by air in the stomach after being fed air into his vein, a baby who died after her gut was pierced by a long metal tube, another baby who died after having milk fed into her jugular vein and two babies, 11-weeks-old, who suffered an infection after being fed a powdered milk formula.  Image source, Image caption, Lucy Letby, pictured here with her husband, has been found guilty of seven murders and attempting to murder six others "This has been eight years of hell for our family, and let's not forget our girls, too.This has ruined all our lives and for what? She should not have been working in the first place."She has also been found guilty of the attempted murder of four other infants at the Countess of Chester Hospital's neo-natal unit.In a joint statement, the girls' parents said they were glad the jury had listened to "the facts" and would get "justice".Image source, Image caption, Letby was a nurse at the Countess of Chester Hospital's neonatal unit The girls' parents say the conviction will help them to "find closure" and "get on with our lives" again.Advertisement "We were all hopeful that the jury would reach these conclusions, but it was clear this would be a long and difficult journey.Advertisement "These families have shown that no matter what happens to them, they will stay strong and will find a way to live with what they are going through.She was convicted on Friday after a ten-month trial.  " "If this is justice, then, to us, justice has failed them, as it has failed us, and we will never forget them.Advertisement Advertisement "We want to thank everyone who has supported us and worked tirelessly to bring these cases to court.Our family's lives have been torn apart and our two boys' lives were cut short before their time.We now have two little girls to raise and a lifetime of questions that we will never be able to answer - 'Why?'.Image source, Image caption, The girls' parents, Kate and Paul O'Brien, have thanked everyone who has supported them in their time of need "Nothing will bring our boys back, but we're hoping this is justice so that we can all move forward and get on with our lives.It's never going to get any less heartbreaking because we will never forget them.The couple also say they want to"get on with their lives".Our children will always be our priority, always, and they will always be happy little girls.Her body language as she sat in the dock gave a few clues during her testimony about who may have been targeted by the nurse, with Judge, the Recorder of Liverpool, Nicholas Cooke QC, telling her that she had not "exhibited any genuine remorse" in the trial.  "Letby murdered seven babies.This case shows that if you have an abusive relationship or an affair, that will not stop a person from being capable of a crime like this.Advertisement Advertisement "Letby has been found guilty of murdering a further seven infants at the Countess of Chester Hospital, and the jury has been asked to decide if she is responsible for attempting to kill another six infants by deliberately injecting air into their veins." She was said to have told her parents she loved them, even though she and Letby had only been friends for a few months.People who have been through a relationship ending with abuse should know that this is not a relationship you should continue to be involved in, as it could become even worse than if the relationship ended in isolation.Image source, Image caption, Letby was the subject of an investigation after a colleague raised concerns about her behaviour "I hope that this will encourage people to reach out to the authorities if they have concerns about how they are being treated and that they are being heard.She has also been found guilty of attempting to murder five babies who, between November 2015 and June 2016, were at the Countess of Chester Hospital neonatal unit.  " "We are in the position we are because we never got any help until it was too late.We want the courts to do everything they can to make sure that anyone who is in a position like this is heard, taken seriously and that they are not failed like we were." Our reporters told Lucy Letby was a nurse who cared for babies at the
ost of living forces parents to use dirty nappies, says charity  A charity in Northern Ireland says the cost of living means families are more desperate than ever.  Parents are scraping out dirty nappies and reusing them, a charity worker said  The stigma around hygiene poverty is holding people back for getting help, a  charity worker said.  Nappy, or incontinence, poverty – the need to reuse nappies – has been highlighted as a problem for families experiencing financial hardships.  One parent who used to use nappies on her nine-year-old son said she only stopped because she felt “desperate”.  The charity, which supports over 2,000 families in Northern Ireland, said the need for nappies was “only becoming more visible”.  The parent, who asked to be identified only as “Beth”, shared her experience in an article called ‘I can’t afford nappies’ published by the charity Northern Ireland Chest, Heart & Stroke (NICHS).  It told how she had been prescribed reusable nappies for her son, but found the process too stressful to attempt.  “The first couple of nights were bad as he was so unsettled because he wasn’t used to being on a nappy for so long. There were a few poo explosions!  “But the rest of the time he seemed fine. I would get up during the night and he would have just soiled his clothes or nappy,” she said.  “So after a couple of nights, we thought it would be easier to wash our own nappies.”  It was during the pandemic that Beth – a single mother of two – felt she had no other choice.  “When I lost my job, I suddenly had two children that I needed to care for, and I was already struggling financially,” she said.  “There wasn’t a single month when we didn’t fall short on finances.  “My eldest son uses adult-sized nappies as he has quite a big bottom.  “We weren’t able to pay for the nappies, and if we did find some money, we were in such a tight spot that we could barely afford to buy food, so I just used nappies that I got from the charity.  “It wasn’t the best time and I didn’t feel comfortable.  “You would want to buy a nappy for your child – why wouldn’t you? And I felt like a bad mum for using recycled ones,” she said.  As a single mother working and caring for children and a partner with learning disabilities, Beth felt isolated, and “had to pretend that we were doing OK”.  “I thought no one else would notice, so I felt like I couldn’t say anything.”  The charity said families needed access to free nappies and wipes at every stage of pregnancy, as well as help with incontinence when required.  “In Northern Ireland there is no access to free nappies or wipes for pregnant families.  “We know that in every country that has universal access to free nappies, there is also free access to wipes.”  NICHS said there were many “very real reasons” why parents would need to use reused nappies.  They said some parents cannot afford to buy disposable nappies at all, while others were using donated or second-hand nappies “in a moment of desperation” and “had no option”.  “This is now becoming much more visible and we know that many parents are using recycled nappies,” they said.  NICHS’ Head of Policy Sarah McCusker said the charity was concerned by the number of parents and carers it met that had faced the choice of buying food or nappies.  “As a mother myself, I know just how crucial disposable nappies are to feeding, bathing, toilet training, dressing and playing with a baby.  “The idea of using reused nappies is not a welcome one.  “To me, it’s the idea that we’ve got to a point where our most vulnerable children are being sent to school in dirty nappies because their families can’t afford to buy the products they need.  “It’s a problem that we just can’t ignore any longer,” she said.  “In NI we have a very real lack of understanding of hygiene poverty, even in a society where we all understand that babies need nappies.  “The stigma around using donated and recycled nappies means that many parents are too ashamed to ask for help,” she added.  NICHS said free incontinence products should be distributed free in hospitals as a “matter of urgency”.  “It may seem a trivial detail, but having access to reusable products or incontinence wipes can help reduce the risk of infection or reduce the chances of children being sent home from school in dirty nappies,” she said.  “They should be an essential for all children, especially those with additional needs.  “It’s a small change that could have a huge impact on the lives of so many children,” she added.  Source
Giorgia Meloni: Italian PM sues Placebo frontman for defamation  Giorgia Meloni is taking action against Brian Molko over comments at a concert in Turin last month.  Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni is suing Placebo singer Brian Molko for defamation after he called her a fascist and a racist during  a show in the Italian city of Turin last month.The Italian Prime Minister sued singer Brian Molko in Turin in the first week of October.Molko was playing at the Palazzo della musica concert hall when he reportedly described her as “the devil in black” and “an absolute fascist”, before taking the stage and changing his mind.  Italian police began an investigation into the allegations of a public offence, while Meloni filed a suit against Molko, 49, on 16 October in the Turin region court.The claim was initially filed in the name of the Italian Prime Minister’s office, but Meloni took over the case this week, the lawyer of Italian singer Antonino D’Abbraccio, who is helping Molko, told Reuters.Molko and the Placebo are due to perform in Italy on 4 November and Meloni’s lawyer has threatened legal action on that tour if the singer does not retract his comments.  My heart was heavy as I read those words. This is so cruel to Giorgia and her family. People will hate her just because of her politics but will try to belittle her and make her suffer. I hope she recovers from this and that she learns to let this phase go. GiorgiaMeloni  <strong>Italian PM sues singer Molko for defamation following concert</strong>Brian Molko, lead singer of Placebo, has been hit with a defamation lawsuit by Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni. She is so angry, I don’t blame her, she did try to turn Italy communist  <strong>Giorgia Meloni sues Placebo singer Brian Molko over ‘racist’ comments</strong>Giorgia Meloni sues Placebo singer Brian Molko over ‘racist’ comments Giorgia Meloni is such a nasty woman. She is so angry, I don’t blame her, she did try to turn Italy communist  <strong>Italian PM’s lawyer: Meloni sues Placebo singer for racism</strong>Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni's lawyer on Thursday said she was suing Placebo singer Brian Molko for racism after the rocker had called her an ‘absolute fascist’ during a concert. GiorgiaMeloni GiorgiaMeloni We’re looking for a way to buy crypto! How would you like to earn extra income while investing? We are looking for a way to buy crypto! How would you like to earn extra income while investing? We’re looking for a way to buy crypto! How would you like to earn extra income while investing? We’re looking for a way to buy crypto! How would you like to earn extra income while investing?  <strong>Italy: Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni says she 'will keep on working' despite defamation suit by Placebo singer</strong>Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni says she 'will keep on working' despite defamation suit by Placebo singer What a drama queen. I’m sure she’s absolutely crushed that she’s being sued.  <strong>Giorgia Meloni Sued For Defamation Over False Claims She Was A ‘Fascist’</strong>She is suing Brian Molko. Italy’s PM Giorgia Meloni is suing Placebo frontman Brian Molko for defamation after Molko referred to Meloni as a fascist during a concert. Meloni was not a member of the Italian Fascist party which the country was under control of from 1922 to 1943. She was born in 1964 and her parents…  <strong>Giorgia Meloni sues singer Brian Molko for racism, threatens legal action in Italy</strong>A Milan court judge said a criminal complaint for abuse of office had been lodged against the singer and his Placebo band, as Meloni has refused to back down.
ibby Stockholm: Resident loses High Court fight over Portland migrant barg  Carralyn Parkes loses her argument that the Government requires planning permission.  The migrants were removed from the barge after Legionella bacteria was found in the on-board water system  There will not be a judicial review into the Home Office's  decision to move illegal migrants to the Bibby Stockholm barge in Dorset.  The move sparked protests with 88 people camped outside the vessel's Dorset location for over 100 days.  The High Court heard Ms Parkes had applied for a judicial review on the grounds the decision to remove migrants from the barge and the subsequent move of others to other locations without planning permission is unlawful.  The government said the case was "wholly without merit" and that the court should dismiss it on costs grounds, but the judge disagreed.  After a four-day hearing earlier this year, Mr Justice Swift, who gave the judgment at the Court of Appeal in London, ruled the Home Office has the right to "make a decision in any place where it deems fit".  He said: "The power to decide matters of immigration which are within the exclusive legislative competence of Parliament to decide are powers of sovereignty exercised in a sovereign democratic state, and the courts have no locus in that process to review decisions made by responsible Ministers or other officials, who make discretionary decisions."  The judge said Ms Parkes could "bring her application on costs grounds against the respondents", but gave her until 28 September to lodge the application.  The court also rejected Ms Parkes' claim that her human rights had been violated.  Ms Parkes, who has lived in the town for 40 years, became a high-profile campaigner after the Dorset vessel was converted into a migrant detention facility by the Home Office in July last year.  The barge was built in 1945 and has been used for a wide range of roles, including passenger and freight transport, military service and training.  Following a lengthy legal battle, the barge finally sailed from its Portsmouth base and moored off Portland, Dorset, at 5.50am on Sunday (August 20).  The Home Office said at least 35 men are aboard the barge at the moment.  The vessel initially had a 39-bed capacity, but some 62 people – some 15 of whom have been placed on it more recently – are currently staying there, after being moved from the RAF Brize Norton site in Oxfordshire.
ivil war at GB News says Calvin Robinson, after he and Laurence Fox sacked  Fox was initially suspended for asking what "self-respecting man" would "climb into bed" with Ava Evans.  As we've been, reporting the comments made by Lawrence Fox were broadcast while he was a guest on Dan Wo otton's show on GB News on Wednesday night.  He said he had been told by the channel that it would investigate his remarks.  "I was suspended on GB News in the first hour tonight for the view that a self-respecting man would not go and climb into bed with a woman I didn't know and have had no prior relationship with," he said.  "This was in front of 1m people, I have been suspended and will now be investigated," he added.  The suspension came after an apology from the presenter himself.  "I am sorry. I made a stupid, insensitive comment and I take it back," he said.  "I will make amends for the situation in private conversations I have later, because I've got a lot of things to do later, but I am sorry that I said it.  "I didn't intend to harm anyone, the intention was to make a ridiculous point and it turned out to be a horrible point.  "I'm sorry. I really am."  It wasn't the first time that Fox has come under fire since joining the channel.  The controversial actor and politician was first suspended on November 17 for an "inappropriate" comment directed at Labour MP Apsana Begum following a debate on trans rights last week.  While the channel said it had taken steps to make the channel “a more welcoming environment”, they have since been criticised for its lack of diversity.  In September the channel announced that 40% of the presenters had been removed and replaced with “lesser-known pundits” after just two weeks.  Dan Wootton said at the time: "It is unacceptable that anyone should have to come and work here only to be treated in this way, and if they're not treated in a supportive way, they won't last more than a few months.  "We are trying to create a news network for all. This is important."  It’s not clear what action Fox’s suspension will lead to, nor whether Wootton will face disciplinary action for his behaviour.
Asiana Airlines: Passenger arrested for opening plane door during South Korea flight  The man said he had opened the door because he was feeling suffocated and wanted to get off quickly.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  A man has been arrested for opening  the door on a South Korean passenger jet while it was flying over the sea, leaving all passengers in a panic.  The 45-year-old man was drunk when he decided to climb up into the plane’s upper deck while the plane was en route to South Korea’s Jeju Island from the Chinese city of Shanghai on Friday, China Media Group reported.  He left the plane as it was being diverted and landed safely at Seoul’s Incheon International Airport.  A member of staff then found the man, who had a blood alcohol level that was 10 times higher than the legal limit, according to Korean media reports.  He is now facing criminal charges.  South Korea, like most other countries, currently has coronavirus border controls in place, which require travellers to complete an electronic passenger locator form (PLF) before entering the country.  A spokeswoman for Jeju Air, the operator of the flight, said that while the man was drunk the door on the upper deck where he travelled had been sealed shut before take-off.  “After the landing, he tried to open the door, but it did not work and he did not have any physical injuries. While the cabin crew and pilot were in the process of calling the police, the passenger left the plane and went to a nearby hotel.  “When he was found and taken to the police station, we discovered the PLF that he submitted at Jeju Airport was falsified. We will be fully cooperating with the authorities on this issue.”  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  The passenger locator form is required by everyone flying into South Korea and requires information such as nationality, place of stay, and flight number.  Jeju Air said that the man had filled out a fake form which gave incorrect information about his place of stay.  The airline is now taking action against the man and reviewing flight procedures to ensure such an incident does not happen again, according to media reports.  The case is one of a number of such incidents in recent times.  In April, a passenger opened the door on a China Eastern Airlines flight from Kunming to Shanghai. The pilot had to return to Kunming.  In February, a man opened the emergency door on a China Eastern flight from Shanghai to Chengdu. The pilot aborted the takeoff and the flight returned to Shanghai.  In January, a woman allegedly opened the emergency door on a China Eastern Airlines flight from Shanghai to Guangzhou, forcing the crew to abort takeoff and return to Shanghai.  In 2017, a passenger opened a plane door during takeoff in Thailand on a Bangkok-bound flight, leaving a four-year-old boy with a bloodied face and a broken leg as the plane’s wheels and doors were dragged across the runway.  In 2015, a 58-year-old American opened an emergency door on a Qantas flight travelling from Sydney to Los Angeles.  The door struck a 21-year-old student in the head, knocking him unconscious. He needed surgery.  While door strikes are common, most are not harmful as the doors are normally closed behind the passenger.  However, in this incident, it appears that the emergency door remained open for some time as the crew attempted to get the passenger to close it.  After opening it, the man was later arrested and charged with opening a cabin door and obstructing the captain from operating the aircraft.  This incident follows a spate of recent disruptive passenger incidents around the world, including a man who urinated on another passenger on a US-bound flight from London, a Chinese woman who spat at a flight attendant, and a British woman who lit a noose on board a flight.
Lola James: NSPCC demands systemic change after girl's murder  NSPCC Cymru says children such as Lola James must be better protected.  Sinead James and Kyle Bevan were jailed over Lola's death on Tuesday  The murder of a two-year-old who was killed by her mum's boyfriend shows  how the child protection system failed, the NSPCC has said.  Lola James' family describe how they lost their 'cheeky little girl' to abuse at her home in Bridgend.  Police say Lola James' body was found in her cot after her parents, Sinead James and Kyle Bevan, left her alone for six hours.  Kyle Bevan and Sinead James have been jailed for the murder of two-year-old Lola James  Police said Kyle Bevan and Sinead James allowed other adults to look after Lola James while they socialised with friends.
Inflation: Basic products like milk and cheese soar in pric  While inflation remains high, there have been changes to what's costing us more, according to the Office of National Statistics.  With so many bills rising where people have no choice but to pay higher prices like energy, personal finance expert Martin Lewis has offered  some practical tips on what you can do to save money.14/10/2023 7:28 pmUpdated6 minutes agoMartin Lewis has said you may be able to get a free £400 heating system upgrade even if you're on universal credit Martin Lewis is a personal finance expert.The 100th episode of the BBC quiz show was a special edition and saw 65-year-old Sue who lives in Hampshire take home the show's top prize of £1million.100 episode of the BBC quiz show was a special edition, and featured 65-year-old Sue, who won the £1million top prize.  Inflation: Basic products like milk and cheese soar in priceInflation was 9.1% in July, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS).Martin said: "If you're a household with a pre-payment meter in England, you could be eligible for a scheme to help you to reduce your energy usage.Related articles Inflation has been rising for months, causing prices to increase at a rate higher than average, with the cost of living still rising despite the rate at which it is.She described her first question right as 'fantastic', and was 'chuffed' to know she was going to win the prize.READ MORE: Martin Lewis urged families with school uniforms to watch out for £40 refund This year alone has seen some of the basic products we buy in the supermarket soar in price.He added: "It's not just a £400 discount, you may actually be saving thousands of pounds if you can improve your energy efficiency."The cost of cheese has risen by 13%, while milk has risen by 16%."The 100th episode of the BBC quiz show was a special edition, and saw 65-year-old Sue who lives in Hampshire take home the show's top prize of £1million.  Eggs have jumped by 19%, and even the iconic bacon butty is more expensive, up by 12%.” This is to cover installation and labour, but you don’t need a new boiler to benefit from the energy efficiency work, it can be new energy-efficient light bulbs, boiler controls, water tank insulating or heat-recovery ventilators.She described her first question right as 'fantastic' and was 'chuffed' to know she was going to win the prize.In his weekly newsletter this week, Money Saving Expert Martin Lewis said there are ways you can save.He wrote: "There's an excellent opportunity to reduce your heating bills.Mr Lewis said you might be eligible to receive a "home energy efficiency upgrade worth up to £1,000".Some of you don't need a new boiler, so will save money even if you get a discount.And as someone who has won The Chase, I am chuffed to bits for Sue! #Chase100.The 100th episode of the BBC quiz show was a special edition, and saw 65-year-old Sue who lives in Hampshire take home the show's top prize of £1million.You can check here.You might be eligible to receive a "home energy efficiency upgrade worth up to £1,000".  The host said: "She’s in the studio.She’s absolutely chuffed.To claim you must be in England and meet the following criteria:  Your property must be an ex-council house built before 2006 or an ex-local authority buy-to-let flat built before 2008.And as someone who has won The Chase, I am chuffed to bits for Sue! #Chase100.She’s won £1 million.".Read more:.  Don't you feel sorry for her that she has to pay so much for milk and butter. I hope she’ll be able to use that money to offset the cost of living increases. No longer are there any products that aren't price gouged. Why? You're not alone, Martin. Inflation is affecting us all.  <strong>Martin Lewis warns of £400 energy upgrade you can get if you're on universal credit | MyLondon</strong>Martin Lewis warned that you could get £400 if you're on universal credit and on a prepayment meter  <strong>65-year-old Sue who won £1m on The Chase says her biggest question was 'fantastic'</strong>The 100th episode of the BBC quiz show was a special edition, and saw 65-year-old Sue, who lives in Hampshire take home the show's top prize of £1million  <strong>65-year-old Sue who won £1m on The Chase says her first question was 'fantastic'</strong>The 100th episode of the BBC quiz show was
orthern Ireland elections 2023: Candidate nominations clo  The deadline for council candidates to submit their nomination papers was 13:00 BST on Monday.  Nominations for those seeking to stand in May's local government elections have closed.  The poll on 18 May was pushed back by  12 weeks after Stormont was suspended amid the political fallout of last week's NI Protocol Bill.  Northern Ireland has been without a government since January following the collapse of the Stormont Executive.  In December, party leaders agreed to an election in May.  But Stormont's powersharing institutions were suspended on 22 January when the DUP withdrew from the administration in protest at Brexit checks on goods entering Northern Ireland from Britain - part of the protocol.  The deadline for nominations was at 16:00 BST.  The BBC has not yet received any official confirmations that the deadline was met.  The BBC understands some candidates are running in several electoral areas and may be considered "multi-nominate" or "prospective" candidates.  They will only be able to take up a seat if they are successful in at least one of the local council areas they have declared a desire to stand in.  The BBC has approached those councils who have confirmed that they are running candidates in relation to the eligibility of their prospective/multi-nominated candidates.  Nominations will be scrutinised by returning officers, who will examine any documents submitted to make sure they are complete.  On 3 March, returning officers will send out an acknowledgement letter to each candidate and then each party confirming that the candidate has been accepted.  Returning officers will give one-month's notice to the media and the public of the dates of the election.  At the end of April, candidates will be told by returning officers who will be on the ballot paper and if they are going to be listed alphabetically or by the party they are associated with.  In the week prior to polling day, candidates will be allowed to put up election posters at designated places, or post them.  The counting of votes will take place on 19 May, starting at 7am.  Once the last vote is counted, all ballots must be put in a ballot box, and any outstanding envelopes and papers must be stored.  They must then be removed from the count location and placed in a secure store at the Council House.  Once the poll is over, and all ballots are put in the ballot box, the polling booths have to be locked and the keys handed to the Council's Returning Officer.  The Returning Officer must send a report by 22 May to the Commission for Regulation of Utilities (CRU), or the Local Government Commissioner (LGC), or the Commission for Regulation of Utilities on behalf of LGC, if the local council is not yet responsible for regulation.  The Returning Officer is responsible for ensuring that the polling booths are locked up as soon as the last vote is counted and the poll is ended.  They must then send a report to the CRU on their polling stations, to include:  The CRUR and LGUR have a statutory obligation to publish the report, and this will be done within 15 days of the poll.  After the report has been published, the CRU must make the results known.  The 2022 Northern Ireland local government elections were the 17th since the creation of local councils following the Northern Ireland Local Government Act 1972.  The election was originally scheduled for May 2021, but was postponed for a year due to the coronavirus pandemic.  The local government elections were the first in Northern Ireland since 2005.  * Who are the candidates hoping to be in the next NI Executive?  * NI Protocol: Stormont election date confirmed  * NI protocol: What are the latest developments?  In May 2020, the BBC reported that it would be the last local government election held before the current parliament, the fifth Westminster one, was set to end in 2024.  The elections were scheduled to take place before the Westminster election. However, the elections in the UK had already been postponed until December 2022 when they were delayed by one year to 2023 because of the coronavirus pandemic.  The election is being held on Thursday 18 May.  A new electoral roll will be produced in spring 2023.  The list will be based on those on the register on 23 March 2023, the day the electoral register was updated.  Every home, property, or residential area that's currently part of a voting district in Northern Ireland, must be represented by a new council.  In each district, voting districts must represent the same number of people and the same number of council seats.  The minimum number of council seats that a district can have is 18, with a maximum of 233.  There are six electoral districts in Belfast, eight in Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon, ten in Derry City and Strabane, 10 in Causeway Coast and Glens, ten in Fermanagh and Omagh, nine in Mid Ulster, 13 in Mid and East
Prince Harry attacks royal 'silence' after Jeremy Clarkson's Meghan column  In an ITV interview, the prince points out Buckingham Palace took more action after a recent race row.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  Prince Harry has accused the Royal Family of  staying silent while racist remarks have been made against Meghan Markle – but not taking action after they themselves came under fire.In an ITV interview broadcast on Sunday, the prince, 36, argued that the Royal Family was more comfortable taking action when attacks were made on them.  He also said the Royal Family were in a position to say more about the "concerning" language used by the 62-year-old presenter.Harry said: "There was a lot of focus and scrutiny placed on the Duke and Duchess [Meghan and Prince Harry] but if there was any racist undertones, if there was any racist language that was used against them, then they should've spoken up, and over time, as a family, they took time to talk." headtopics.com  'Took the knee'A spokesman for the Royal Family responded by saying "racism has no place in our society" and that comments from Clarkson were "deeply worrying and disturbing".Harry, who stepped down from royal duties in March, also spoke about being "shocked" to read some of the comments that Clarkson had made against Meghan and the couple's baby Archie.  The Sun reported that he accused the former Top Gear presenter of making "horrific and hurtful statements" about the duchess – but also said the "silence from Buckingham Palace is deafening".'Deeply concerning'In a statement, the Royal Family said they "absolutely reject" claims that racism has any place in the armed forces or within the Royal Family itself.  It said: "The language used by Mr Clarkson was offensive, insulting, racist and unacceptable and not in keeping with the standards of the British royal family or indeed the BBC, and we apologise for it." Read more: BBC News (UK) »  <strong>Prince Harry reveals why he quit being a royal</strong>Prince Harry opens up on why he decided to 'step back' from royal duties and move to the US  <strong>Prince Harry 'worried about his son's welfare after being called Archie's skin colour'</strong>Prince Harry admitted he was 'worried about Archie's skin colour' and fears the racism his son Archie has had to endure - which he says he has had to endure in his own way as a black man and as a biracial man - is being perpetuated in other families. Harry, I can’t speak for others but I do not think about Archie’s skin colour. You must be mistaken!  <strong>Prince Harry: Prince William 'devastated' as Meghan Markle's brother 'sues'</strong>Meghan Markle’s brother, Thomas Markle, is suing her and Prince Harry after suing the Duke of Sussex and accusing him of lying. The Duchess of Sussex’s half brother, is suing over comments she and Prince Harry made about him while he was being treated for his heart condition. Markle's brother is suing the couple for ‘intentional infliction of emotional distress,’ according to his legal complaint, which was obtained by PEOPLE. The complaint alleges that Markle and Harry 'published false and defamatory statements and caused Plaintiff to suffer severe emotional distress from the lies’. What a waste of money. Who cares?  <strong>Prince Harry slams the 'silence' of royals in wake of racism row over Jeremy Clarkson</strong>Meghan Markle's husband said: “You can look forward to seeing a lot of silence as well from Buckingham Palace, because they know what it’s like.” 🤢  <strong>Prince Harry slammed as 'disappointing' by ex-aide for Jeremy Clarkson interview</strong>Prince Harry made a fresh admission that he wanted to ‘break the rules' when he gave his first TV interview since quitting royal duties  <strong>Why Prince Harry is really back - and not 'breaking royal rules'</strong>Prince Harry is back on screens this weekend, speaking about everything from 'breaking royal rules' to why he moved from the UK to the US. He was on the other end of a bullying complaint himself. He's on TV again? Oh for f's sake.... Is he planning on trying to take over the BBC or something? He was on tv, to tell the truth. Nothing much changes at the Royals.
Diane Abbott attacks Labour investigation as 'fraudulent'  The MP has been suspended from the party pending an inquiry into comments she made about racism.  Diane Abbott has branded a Labour Party investigation into her comments about racism "fraudulent".  She was suspended as a Labour MP in April after suggesting Jewish, Irish and Traveller  communities should be"considered a white racial group".  Ms Abbott has always maintained the views she expressed were her own and not those of the Labour Party.  But in a written statement published on Thursday, she claimed the Labour inquiry "is not genuinely seeking the truth".  In a statement, the ex-shadow home secretary and Haringey North and Tottenham MP said it had "never wanted the truth" and had "deliberately set out to destroy" her.  "It is impossible to know how many people will be forced to resign, be expelled and/or be forced to flee their country because of this process," she said.  <strong>:: Diane Abbott MP: My anti-Semitism comments were a 'huge mistake'</strong>  The inquiry into Ms Abbott's comments was commissioned by the party's National Executive Committee (NEC), but Ms Abbott said it has "nothing to do with truth and everything to do with self-preservation".  "The Labour Party must be made to know that, for people like me, if the NEC continues in this way, there will be a reckoning and it will be very different to what we have seen today," she said.  Ms Abbott added that Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer and the NEC should be held "fully accountable" for what she described as a"dangerous precedent" of expulsions of MPs.  She said: "The NEC cannot escape the fact that the process has been rigged from the start and that its intent has never been serious.  "The process must stop. The Labour Party should stop, stop, and start again. All those who were involved in the process must be stripped of their power immediately."  Labour has said it will begin the process of investigating Ms Abbott later this month.  <strong>:: The coronavirus briefing you need</strong>  <strong>:: Live COVID-19 updates from the UK and around the world</strong>  Labour sources told Sky News earlier this week that Ms Abbott had given evidence to the inquiry.  During her evidence she reportedly suggested Labour was "not really that interested in Jewish people".  Her comments followed an interview given by Ms Abbott to BBC Radio 5 Live where she told listeners to be cautious in generalising about the Holocaust.  The Labour Party's National Executive Committee (NEC) said in April that they had launched an inquiry into whether comments made by Ms Abbott were anti-Semitic.  Ms Abbott's comments were made after she was widely criticised for saying that she would support a Labour government "if they adopt my policy of not using the term 'Jewish people' to refer to Jews".  After she was suspended she also said: "I have consistently expressed support for Labour's policy to fight anti-Semitism but I have not always been consistent about the use of the word Jew."  <strong>:: The UK government's COVID-19 response</strong>  A Labour Party spokesperson said: "Diane Abbott is suspended from the Labour Party and we continue our process with the NEC to address the serious concerns around her comments."  Mr Starmer issued a statement in April which condemned anti-Semitism, saying "it is abhorrent and has absolutely no place in the Labour party".  "I will do everything I can to restore confidence and drive us forward to meet our shared goals of a better and fairer Britain for us all," he said.  In his statement on Thursday, he reiterated the party's commitment to tackling anti-Semitism.  "While the Labour Party's record is second to none, I am determined that the few who break the rules, the few who let us down, are not rewarded," he said.  "And we are determined to restore confidence in the Labour Party so we can build a better Britain for working people.  "The Labour Party exists to bring about change. Diane Abbott has chosen to destroy our party.  "The National Executive Committee process to investigate her remarks is ongoing."
Water firms forced to pay back customers for poor performanc  Regulator Ofwat orders companies in England and Wales to cut bills after missing targets.  Water companies have been ordered to pay back £114m to customers through lower bills after missing key targets.  Ofwat, the industry regulator, said that firms  had fallen short on delivering a reliable supply of water and getting the pipes repaired to deal with the damage done by severe weather.  The average bill will now go down by around 1%.  The decision was welcomed by MPs and trade unions.  'We need a reliable service'  It is likely to bring some small relief to water users after bills increased last year by £81 in real terms – equivalent to an inflation-busting 7%.  The watchdog has the power to force companies to pay back some of what they receive from bill payers because it has calculated that the total income has been too high.  A typical bill – worth £399 – now has extra charges totalling £89.20.  The amount will be spread across three months and will come off bills in April, May and June.  Ofwat chief executive Regina Finn said the payment – the largest in her eight-year career – meant it had now been awarded over £5 billion to customers.  "Millions of households are facing rising costs and prices are already very high for essential services like energy, but we expect a regulated water industry which has a clear obligation to deliver a reliable service and protect customers from price rises," she said.  'A tough job'  She added: "We have set out clear targets and expectations for the water industry to be fit for the future, including a plan to reduce leakage, deliver better value for money for customers and protect our shared environment.  "But, like any regulated industry, this has proven to be a tough job for our industry and Ofwat is not complacent."  Last year, the water industry's performance was ranked as poor by the regulator, for the first time since 2007.  However, bosses have said that they can now deliver the reliable service promised, and the regulator is looking at ways to improve performance.  Source: www.bbc.co.uk
Perseid meteor shower lights up ski  Up to 100 shooting stars an hour were visible in one of the year's most anticipated astronomical events.  The annual Perseid meteor shower has lit up skies across the world to the delight of those hoping to catch a glimpse of a shooting star.  The phenomenon  is a result of a cosmic dust trail, left over from a comet named Swift-Tuttle, which has been coming close to our solar system since 1992.  The comet left a cloud of debris in its wake that was 45 miles long by 350 miles wide and caused an outburst of meteor activity, with astronomers expecting hundreds of meteors to appear every minute as they pass across the Earth's sky.  A total of 60,000 Perseids will reach Earth's atmosphere every hour at the height of their annual display.  Last year the Perseid meteor shower gave viewers in the UK one of the best displays in years with as many as 60 meteors an hour seen at one point, but it was clear that 2012's show would be an equally memorable one.  At 12.40am this morning, the peak of the meteor shower was reached and the skies were lit up as the stars descended towards our Earth.  For a short period of time on Sunday night, up to 100 shooting stars could be seen per hour before the moon set in to spoil the show, but many took to social media to post photographs and videos of the phenomenon.  The phenomenon began on Monday, and will run until the end of next week, offering people a chance to catch the meteor shower until it is obscured by moonrise in the early hours of Sunday morning, 31 August.  People looking up at the night's sky may notice some of them resemble the planet Jupiter. The planets is often confused with meteors, but the planets are visible for a much longer period of time before appearing to shoot across the sky.  The peak of the show coincides with a solar eclipse. A total solar eclipse takes place on the 21st, in parts of Africa, South America and Australia.  If you missed the best of the Perseids this year, the next Perseid show to occur is in August 2014, with many hoping it may be more successful than this one.
About 200 asylum-seeking children have gone missing, says minister  Minister Robert Jenrick says it is "extremely concerning" that about 200 children have gone from hotels.  About 200 children, mostly Albanian teenage boys, remain missing from hotels housing asylum seekers, the immigration minister has  said.Image caption, An asylum seeker with his belongings packed into a suitcase (PA) Around 1,600 people on "hotel watch" who have not been accounted for include migrants accommodated in 35 accommodation venues across the UK.Mr Jenrick said: "There is much concern and a great deal of frustration that 200 people have gone missing over the course of the last year."We need to find these people who went missing. We must. "We will work with all of our partners and of course with our European allies to ensure that these people are accounted for."Image caption, Government guidance for migrants who are granted asylum in the UK recommends they take the tube as a way to travel outside of London (PA) He added: "We need to make sure people go to a safe place, and people go to a safe place so that they can get into work, and we need to make sure they're treated with the proper compassion so that they know they're safe and can be properly integrated." We don't want vulnerable people to be out there on their own, we do want to make sure they're taken care of. "It's extremely concerning that we see two hundred missing people at the moment - 200 people who were accounted for and have then just gone missing. "We can't allow that to continue. That is not in the interest of the person involved in the first place, but of course, it is not in the national interest either."The Government has spent more than £6bn accommodating nearly 50,000 asylum seekers in hotels since March 2020.  The Home Office has been unable to find around 600 asylum seekers from a record number of hotels, new figures have shown.Earlier this year, figures showed more than 2,200 asylum seekers were unaccounted for since October 2021.The guidance published in 2020 includes advice on travel arrangements, including how people can use the Tube.Last year, a total of 205 children went missing from hotels in England where they are being accommodated, Mr Jenrick said." "I am working hard with partners to find these individuals and get them back with their families."We need to work through the details of exactly how this happened, and I am particularly keen for people to come forward if they know anything about it. "The guidance says that it is the Government's "long-standing policy" for people coming to the UK via small boats to be referred to the UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) team. We're just not in a position to say exactly what the precise causes were."In the meantime, the Home Office has published a revised set of guidelines for asylum seekers on how they can travel outside of the London area.  "We have set out a clear plan to fix the system so that we no longer have this issue." The statement also says: "To minimise the risk of individuals going missing, [the Home Office] encourages the use of public transport to enable individuals to reach their final destinations and to access services. "I want to thank the organisations who have been helping us. We will continue to work with our partners to fix the asylum system so we can support more people safely, who need protection." It comes as Labour has called for a public inquiry into the situation.“Guidance is only one part of the story, it is not the whole story.” Shadow home secretary Yvette Cooper, who led an inquiry into the issue when she was Theresa May's home secretary in 2018, said: "The Home Office knows these children are missing but they haven't been able to find them." Ms Cooper added: "This is a huge problem."She said it was "deeply worrying and concerning that 200 children are not accounted for, and we don't know where they are" but warned that "it's just one part of the whole picture"."It goes to the heart of the way that the government is trying to do asylum, which is in hotel accommodation on a huge scale and not really properly thinking through what it is we are doing.""In the meantime, it appears that the Government isn't serious about taking control of this crisis and making sure all these individuals are accounted for or returned to their home countries of origin." In May 2022, the Home Office announced a new system where some asylum seekers would receive £3,700 towards a "deposit" in an account to help pay for accommodation once their claims had been processed.  Labour has also written to the prime minister to call for a public inquiry.Asylum seekers are able to claim financial support while waiting for a decision about their application and are also provided with free housing by local authorities during this process.In the previous six weeks 453 people have entered the UK across the Channel.The Home Office said this was in response to an increase in numbers crossing the English Channel
Local elections 2023: Tory losses a clear rejection of Rishi Sunak, says Labour  Labour says it is heading back to power after Tories lose 1,000 councillors in English local elections.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.   I'm sure all these Labour and SNP MPs are happy.  <strong>Analysis: Tory losses in local elections a clear rejection of Rishi Sunak, says Labour</strong>The Conservatives have been routed in local elections today - losing thousands of councillors - with a new poll showing the Tories are on track to lose in the 2024 general election. They still haven’t answered the call for a PM election. Why is the LibDem leader calling for a leadership contest? Where’s the Labour leadership debate? Where’s the Tory leadership debate? It looks like a sham. They are not going to have a leader contest until after the 2024 General Election. The party is not going to survive till then, with their present leaders. That’s why they want to have one.  <strong>Tories lose council seats to Labour and Liberal Democrats in local elections</strong>Analysis: The Conservatives have been routed in local elections today - losing thousands of councillors - with a new poll showing the Tories are on track to lose in the 2024 general election. So now it's Labour. Good.. It's a clear indication from the voters that they are sick and tired of this corrupt tory government.. It's their only hope now.  <strong>Local elections 2023: Tories suffer crushing defeat in Labour-run city of Liverpool</strong>Results from the latest wave of elections across the UK. Local elections 2023: Tories suffer crushing defeat in Labour-run city of Liverpool: The Conservative party have suffered heavy losses in the city of Liverpool, where they have lost hundreds of council seats in the local elections. A 'crushing' defeat?  <strong>Tory leader Liz Truss resigns after 45 days as prime minister</strong>Liz Truss quits as Prime Minister after less than three months. It's over for the Truss era. She's been replaced with his, her, her Chancellor, the new prime minister, her Chancellor... The real person in charge of the UK Government is now Sir Keir Starmer. She's been replaced by him. No one needs to take up the post, because he's already the PM! He's always been in charge! The Tories in bed with Putin, but the Tories are also in bed with Iran! They're like a pair of dirty, stinking, old socks, smelly all over! The Tories can now be safely discarded by the Labour Party! The Tory's are rotten from head to toe!  <strong>Boris Johnson and Liz Truss stand aside – UK politics news | Sky News</strong>Boris Johnson and Liz Truss stand aside – UK politics news | Sky News More from our political editor, Beth Rigby Boris2024 It wasn't even a day or two after Liz stepped down, but Boris has already come out with his own statements.  <strong>Local elections 2023 LIVE: Tory humiliation as Labour takes more seats from Tories across the country – latest updates</strong>UK’s Local elections 2023 LIVE: Liz Truss resigns as PM after ‘crushing’ loss as Labour wins hundreds of Tory seats from Tories.
Scotland political editor Glenn Campbell treated for tumour  The political editor at BBC Scotland is to undergo surgery and will take time off work for treatment.  Glenn Campbell has worked at BBC Scotland since 2001  BBC Scotland political editor Glenn Campbell has announced he is being treated for a brain tumour.  The 4 4-year-old, who has worked at the broadcaster for more than 16 years, will be absent from the screens for up to six weeks while he is treated for the illness.  The former Labour MSP said: “The last couple of weeks have been incredibly difficult for me and I am grateful for the great support I have received from my family and friends.  “I’m very grateful for the treatment and care that I have already received and the kindness and thoughtfulness that I have experienced.  “I am determined to beat this and return to work.”  The BBC’s Scotland Director Rona Mochan added: “We wish Glenn all the best for a speedy recovery, while we offer our support as he takes a break from work.  “Glenn is much loved and valued by staff and audiences alike.”  Campbell, who won Labour’s East Renfrewshire constituency for four years in the late 1990s, will take an indefinite period of leave of absence.  The SNP’s former finance secretary John Swinney tweeted: “I was sad to hear the news Glenn Campbell is being treated for a tumour. My thoughts are with him and his family.”  Fellow MSP Tom Arthur, of the Scottish Greens, added: “Best wishes for a speedy recovery to Glen Campbell, Political Editor at BBC Scotland.”  Mr Campbell was the Labour MSP for East Renfrewshire from 1999 to 2003.  He was the MSP for Glasgow Maryhill, Maryhill and Springburn constituency from 2003 to 2007, before taking on his current post.  He was born in Edinburgh but has spent most of his life in Paisley, where he is still a member of the town’s bowling club.  He was appointed Scotland Editor on June 1, 2011.  He is also a part-time lecturer at the University of Strathclyde on Scottish politics.  Campbell has interviewed prime ministers and led the BBC Scotland political team at Holyrood, Westminster and the General Election.
Rishi Sunak considers radical shake-up of A-level  Rishi Sunak weighs up a new "British baccalaureate" qualification but no decisions have been taken.  Prime Minister Rishi Sunak is considering a new baccalaureate qualification to rival A-levels  Rishi Sunak is considering a major reform of A-levels in  an effort to make school education more like America, it was claimed yesterday.  The Prime Minister is considering a new "British baccalaureate" qualification, which would be based on a 13-year academic pathway that starts from Year 9.  It comes amid fresh concerns about poor pupils' progress after a rise in the number of students receiving D grades and below in A-level maths.  It is understood the proposal has been mooted by the Department for Education.  It has not been adopted and ministers have made no decisions on any changes to A-levels.  A senior figure involved in education said: "This is another of the many changes under discussion about how A-levels should work. Nothing has been set in stone.  "In the end, the decision on A-levels will be taken by Ofqual [the qualifications regulator]."  Mr Sunak is also exploring reforms to remove the current requirement of a core maths qualification and the use of additional maths for some A-levels.  The idea of a British baccalaureate is not new and was put forward by former Conservative prime minister Iain Duncan Smith in a speech in 2022. He said it was needed to ensure young people were "equipped with the skills and knowledge that are vital for the modern workplace".  Mr Duncan Smith said at the time: "Many schools follow a two-tier model, with students on the same pathway from Year 9 in the first years, but with a choice between two distinct options from the age of 16 onwards.  "There should be only one academic pathway through each school to 18 years of age for all of their pupils."  The Prime Minister is also weighing up options to make it easier to change subjects at A-level, a change that would be made after students submit their choices to universities in the coming months.  But it has emerged that the Prime Minister is also exploring a shake-up of what students take at A-level.  A major reform is expected to be the end of the requirement to do core maths, a subject which is required by some, but not all, A-level courses.  Mr Sunak is also looking at the use of additional maths for A-levels, which is taught in the same way as core maths but could see some students take it alongside their GCSEs and not be given an A-level result.  The exams regulator currently requires all students to take maths if they do not have an A-level grade.  Mr Sunak is also planning to explore options for students to change subjects and leave school after Year 12 rather than complete another year to take A-levels.  Last night it was understood that he is also seeking changes that could mean students could start A-levels at 16 and finish at 18.  Students are usually given the choice to take A-levels, vocational qualifications or a mixture of the two at the age of 16.  It comes as the number of students gaining D grades or below in A-level maths has risen slightly, while the proportion of pupils gaining A*-B grades has fallen by two percentage points.  The data shows a total of 5,934 A-level maths students gained a D or below this year, up 0.4 per cent on last year. However, the number of students who obtained A*-B grades fell from 57 per cent to 55 per cent.  Last year, it was estimated that around 180,000 students were receiving grades D or below in maths. A rise in these grades has sparked fresh concern from campaigners.  Last year, 175,700 students received a D or below in maths, equivalent to 6.6 per cent.  Chris McGovern, chairman of the Campaign for Real Education (CaRE) group, said: "It is alarming that even more students than last year are failing to achieve the minimum acceptable standard required to study A-levels.  "Our education system is on its knees, with students being pushed down the educational drainpipes by ministers who lack the courage to confront this disaster.  "Our leaders refuse to confront the stark reality that the vast majority of students are not attaining sufficient results to study the courses of their choice."  Students who get a D or below in their maths A-level are not allowed to study a mathematical degree in a Russell Group university and are at least 20 per cent less likely to get on to a university degree than those with A* or A grades, analysis from education charity the Social Mobility Foundation has found.
Family tribute to girl who died after Inverkeithing drug incident  Police say Carly Kilpatrick, 14, died after she became ill at a property in Inverkeithing on Monday.  Carly's family described her "a loving daughter, sister, auntie and friend"  The family of a schoolgirl  who died after becoming ill at a house in Inverkeithing are paying tribute to her.  Carly Kilpatrick, 14, collapsed at the property on Sunday night and died on Monday, Fife police said.  Three boys, aged 14 and 15, and a 19-year-old man have been arrested in connection with the incident.  Carly's family said she had "loved being a teenager and learning new things, having lots of friends, having family fundays and travelling to see her aunties and uncles".  She had a "special bond with her dog, Charlie".  A service is being held for her later this week.  Carly's father said: "There will always be a hole in our hearts."  The teenager's mother said: "There were so many special moments in Carly's life with Charlie and her friends, especially her cousin, Olivia.  "Olivia was an important part of her life."  Fife Constabulary said the arrested people had been released pending further enquiries.  Police have previously said the death is being treated as "unexplained".  Read more: https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-tayside-central-66163754#
hatGPT: US lawyer admits using AI for case research  The lawyer told the judge he did not know content from the artificial intelligence could be false.  ChatGPT can answer questions using natural, human-like language and mimic other writing styles  A New York lawyer is facing a court hearing of his own after his firm  filed a motion accusing the lawyer of stealing from the firm by using artificial intelligence to complete part of his legal research.  The lawyer admitted during a hearing on Monday that he had used ChatGPT to draft documents and that he did not know the platform's content could be wrong.  He argued that the company should have a warning label on ChatGPT, or have it disclosed in the case that it is using artificial intelligence, like how Google's search results show which parts are from Google's system and which are from the creator of the article.  ChatGPT and other AI writing tools have drawn attention recently because of their ability to produce content that is not only human-like but also capable of mimicking the style of prominent writers.  ChatGPT can answer questions using natural, human-like language and mimic other writing styles, but some in the legal industry have said the platform could lead to malpractice.  The lawyer told the judge that he had been searching for a law article about a court hearing and had come to understand the rules regarding what happens in court in the event of a conflict of interest between a lawyer and the client.  But he did not think he was violating any rules because he had searched "case law" and not case law in a particular state. The search had resulted in a link to a law school page.  When the judge asked whether the lawyer had been doing that as a test run, he replied, "No, I never expected to actually write anything or have it reviewed."  The judge ultimately warned him that he needed to come clean. "I want to make it as clear as can be that you use ChatGPT without disclosing it in all your filings in the future. And if it's used in research or documents, it has to be disclosed," the judge said.  A law student told New York Times he was scared of using the same AI writing tool he has used so often, and he now considers it a threat to the profession.  "I'm trying to stay ahead of the curve, but it's just not where we were in 2022," the student said.  In the future, AI will be more widespread and it will affect every aspect of life, especially the law, he said.  While he has never used ChatGPT for research or writing, he has been using it for other things such as reviewing summaries, drafting legal contracts and even grading other people's work.  He said that AI might be able to write a "perfectly coherent" document and he would consider that evidence if he were a judge, but he is still worried about its implications.  "I'm still afraid that it'll be a tool that's going to be used against me and that it'll be the end of my career and it'll never be able to come back from that," the student said.  One of the lawyers working for the plaintiff, John T. Moore, who is not a lawyer and is working for an independent investigator who is conducting a forensic audit into the company, said, "The system may well not know that it is incorrect.  "In fact, it may even have been designed to do that.  "But that's a real problem. We can't rely on it to tell us the truth. We need to be sure that what it tells us is true."  The court will decide soon whether he will be sanctioned for his use of AI, but the judge said that ChatGPT had been an "eye-opener" for him and he was not sure what would happen next.  <strong>Sources:</strong>  - Reuters https://www.reuters.com/business/us-judge-warns-attorney-using-ai-generate-court-document-2023-08-14/  - https://www.reuters.com/technology/chatgpt-writer-says-fear-legal-work-may-be-at-risk-2023-08-14/  - https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/02/technology/chatgpt-attorneys-law-artificial-intelligence.html  - https://www.politico.com/news/2023/08/14/chatgpt-legal-industry-artificial-intelligence-lawyer-00107991
arry Manilow explains why he kept his sexuality a secret for decad  "Back in the 70s it would have killed a career," says the 80-year-old. "The public was not ready".  Barry Manilow has sold more than 85 million albums over the  course of his 50-year career, making him one of the biggest-selling music artists of all time.But as he looks back on his life, he has decided to write a book about his sexuality.  Manilow, who released his new album A Christmas Gift for You from Barry Manilow, in November, sat down with  The Sun, a British newspaper, to discuss his decision to write a memoir, why he hid his sexuality in the 70s and 80s and to speak publicly about it now. headtopics.com  “I finally feel comfortable enough to say out loud what’s in my heart: that I’m gay and I’m a gay man,” he wrote for The Sun. “I’ve been on this planet for 81 years and I’ve been afraid to admit it publicly. And why is that?  I was afraid of what people would think of me, I was afraid of losing people I loved. And now, I’m at that point where I have nothing left to lose. I have nothing to live up to.  Good for him! I’m glad he came out! More power to him. Why couldn’t he say he was bi-sexual ? Why must he put his sexuality on a pedestal? There are more important things in life! He would be doing more good with his fame and money if he supported the LGBTQ+ rights. He's got more than 85 million records. Let him have the freedom of choice he deserves.  Good for him! I’m sure this will make a lot of people happy! 👍👍👍👍 If I lived in a world where everyone was free to be whoever they wanted to be, I'd be just as free. But in my world, we don't have to. But why did it take him 50 years to do it? Seems like this is just a cash grab.  <strong>Harry Styles explains what makes a great date</strong>Harry Styles explains what makes a great date I always love to read what the great musicians think and say, it’s so amazing Harry Styles is a great musician He is a very special person!  <strong>Harry Styles reveals he once got told ‘no’ by Elton John</strong>'You know what they said, no, no, no', I thought 'Oh, they think I'm too old for Elton John,' he said.  <strong>Harry Styles explains why he hasn't tried to do acting yet</strong>Harry Styles has revealed that he hasn't tried to do acting yet but would love to one day, and opened up about the fact he'd like to work with Leonardo DiCaprio one day.  <strong>Harry Styles explains what his ideal date is</strong>Harry Styles talks about his perfect date!  <strong>Harry Styles explains that he'd love to have his own TV show someday</strong>Harry Styles reveals what he'd like to do with his life after One Direction, including his dream TV show  <strong>Harry Styles reveals he is not 'super busy' with acting</strong>Harry Styles talks about his life and explains why he is not 'super busy' with acting
Eurovision 2023: John Lydon fails in bid to be Ireland's act for Liverpool  Public Image Ltd, which John Lydon formed after the Sex Pistols split, had hoped to go to the song contest.  John Lydon, sometimes known as Johnny Rotten, said he had wanted to  be Ireland's entry but had been "kicked out".  "There's no Irish representative for Eurovision so I'm looking for someone to stand up," he said.  "I'd love to be Ireland's entry. I have had conversations with representatives. They've said they need to consult, which they never do, because you're up there by the time you do that.  "They get a cheque, they go into the dressing room and all the money's spent within an hour.  "They can't afford a 60-year-old man and we know what happens."  Lydon said he was "not being funny but it's an absolute tragedy we don't have a representative from Ireland".  He said: "I think we're getting a bit old fashioned and boring with our music and culture, and there's nothing to be excited about."  "It's an absolute tragedy we don't have a representative from Ireland." John Lydon  Lydon added: "The way we're looking at it, it's quite shocking, Eurovision needs to wake up and smell the coffee. It needs to get younger and it needs to get fresh."  This year's contest takes place in Liverpool on 9 May, with other Irish acts hoping to reach the final, including Wild Youth and Sam Ryder.
PMQs: Rishi Sunak denies being 'hopelessly weak' over Nadhim Zahawi  Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer says the PM should have sacked Nadhim Zahawi, at Prime Minister's Questions.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your  browser.Image source, Getty Images/David Gray-Lacey Boris Johnson has rejected the Labour Party's call for him to sack the minister who chairs his campaign to win the Tory leadership race.Mr Zahawi said he would "repay the sum in full and clear the matter with the HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC)".  Play Video When you first click on a link in a tweet, this will take you to that Twitter page.You will then see the Tweet you clicked on in context of your home timeline.Mr Zahawi, who chairs the Vote for Boris campaign, has come under fire this week for the £4.A new tab opens to where the Twitter content is being displayed.Read more: "This matter is being dealt with by the appropriate authority in accordance with the Code of Conduct.You can switch back to this page later from the Twitter account that loaded the content.The Prime Minister said he knew nothing about Mr Zahawi’s “very difficult personal situation” before he appointed him as party chairman.If you need to log into the third-party account to continue, you will be taken back to that page.In a message posted on his personal Twitter account on Friday, the Chancellor said he was paying back £150,000, the amount he "and HMRC" agreed on.  You can return to Twitter now, or you can just leave this page and read the content on your home timeline."This is the first time I’ve heard anything about this.He later said he would make a personal payment of the sum in full, and that he had contacted the new PM to "apologise personally".BBC Homepage Advertisement.
Train drivers offered pay rise in bid to end strik  The Rail Delivery Group says its offer would see wages for drivers rise by £5,000 by the end of 2023.  Train drivers have been offered a 4% pay rise for two years in a row by the body that  represents the network.But the news sparked a furious backlash from members of the Rail, Maritime and Transport union, with Mick Lynch, the RMT general secretary, calling the offer “nothing short of an insult”.  He added: “Our members will not allow an attack on their jobs, pay and conditions, to proceed.”On the same day, RMT members in Arriva Rail London (ARL) who run the London Underground voted in favour of accepting the pay offer for 2022/2023 – meaning those workers will receive a 4% pay rise.  <strong>UK train drivers to go on strike in biggest rail meltdown for 30 years</strong>The 48-hour strike by the drivers’ union Aslef will cripple London and Scotland’s rail networks during the Queen’s Jubilee weekend in June. What on earth is going on. I thought you were supposed to be in a recession? What are we getting in it for all this disruption  <strong>RMT rejects strike offer for 45,000 Network Rail staff</strong>Network Rail staff vote to strike in a dispute over pay, the prospect of compulsory redundancies, and the role of safety inspectors. This is getting ridiculous The Rail, Maritime and Transport Union (RMT) is a union representing railway workers, road haulage drivers and dockworkers in the United Kingdom. The union describes its members as ‘transport workers’, with members from railway and transport-related companies such as Merseytravel, Merseyside Fire & Rescue Service, London Fire Brigade and British Waterways.  <strong>Network Rail staff strike voted for – but only if the union gets what it wants</strong>RMT said there was ‘a clear mandate from its members’ to strike 23 and 24 June.  <strong>UK rail chaos: What you need to know about train strike in June</strong>What you need to know about rail strike in UK: Network Rail staff to go on strike, biggest rail meltdown for 30 years Is this the government's revenge on the workers? You see what happens when the public doesn't have the power to do the same to the government. You can't stop a worker by forcing a company to close.  <strong>UK rail chaos: Why are train drivers striking on June bank holiday weekend?</strong>Network Rail staff to strike on June bank holiday weekend, biggest rail meltdown for 30 years. They should be striking for more money to earn not for more days off. The unions can not be trusted. Why do they get it so wrong every time?  <strong>Network Rail staff vote for first strike in 30 years amid row over pay</strong>A total of 43,330 people, comprising more than 99% of staff members, voted to strike on June 23 and 24. But this is the best they'll do. I'm sure RMT can come up with something else that'll help people not go to work, even though they don't get pay rises to do what they do. Oh, wait... Never mind. No more people going to work. That'll be right, no more disruption of the economy!  Share article The Rail Delivery Group says its offer would see wages for drivers rise by £5,000 by the end of 2023.Network Rail staff will begin striking for the first time in 30 years next week as a row over pay, job security and the role of safety inspectors threatens to devastate the railway network.The Rail, Maritime and Transport Union said there was a “clear mandate from its members” to strike.RMT general secretary Mick Lynch.  But the news sparked a furious backlash from members of the Rail, Maritime and Transport union, with Mick Lynch, the RMT general secretary, calling the offer “nothing short of an insult”. He added: “The only reason this is on the table is because we fought back with action at London Underground and secured a 4% pay increase over two years. A second strike is planned for 25 and 26 June. Our members will not allow an attack on their jobs, pay and conditions, to proceed. He warned that staff would be balloted again over further strikes until the dispute is resolved. “I reject out of hand, this offer for 2023.” The move will cripple passenger services to London and Scotland during the Jubilee bank holiday weekend. It will be rejected out of hand. “We are calling on the government and the railways to work with us to resolve this dispute, and we will respond immediately after members have voted next week.”  “The government must step in and get round the negotiating table to find a way forward. The biggest strike for 30 years will leave only a skeleton rail service, a 23% drop in seats, and most station platforms will be closed. Staff would get 4% for 2022/23. We urge passengers to think twice before travelling over the Jubilee weekend.” Train
hinese eagerly await return of panda from US zoo  The treatment of Ya Ya at Memphis Zoo has often been scrutinised - but unfairly, the zoo maintains.  Ya Ya - pictured in 2020 - has a condition that makes her fur look thin and patchy, Memphis Zoo has said  Millions  of viewers were treated to the sight of a pair of pandas - Mei Xiang and Tian Tian - reunited in Washington DC last month, as the pair welcomed their first cub together in two years.  Mei Xiang, 20, has been with her mate Tian Tian at the Smithsonian National Zoo for more than 15 years, but it is her friend Ya Ya - the first Asian giant panda to be born in the US - who has drawn the most attention.  She was a star attraction in a 2010 documentary called 'Year of the Panda' - starring a then-four-year-old Ya Ya alongside the famous pair - and had been the only panda in the US to be bred and raised there when Tian Tian's parents were brought from China.  Ya Ya has attracted thousands of visitors to the Memphis Zoo since she was put on show in the 1970s after being sent to the US on loan from China.  Ya Ya was born to the first pair of giant pandas bred in the US - Fufu and Qimei.  She arrived at the Memphis Zoo in the 1980s after her mother died and has now reached "ripe maturity", the zoo's animal care department told <strong>i</strong> - a situation which sees her regularly seen at the zoo undergoing veterinary checks, receiving medical treatment, and being given medications and food.  "She has a condition known as 'shaving', where the hair on her stomach is missing and her fur looks thin and patchy," a spokesman said.  "This happens for many different reasons, but in Ya Ya's case it appears related to an issue of nutrition. She has very high standards - like many pandas! - so if she doesn't get the right diet, she will not gain weight.  "Shaving can be a very frustrating situation because you can't tell how long it will last. If Ya Ya were a human, she would have to be eating a diet high in protein, including meat."  The zoo said Ya Ya had been put on medication and the problem had become better since the summer of 2020.  "There are many things that affect a panda's ability to gain weight, so we are working through a number of ideas to try and figure out why it hasn't improved yet," a zoo spokesman said.  In Ya Ya's case, she has been given a specially-developed diet for pandas - but the zoo's spokesman said it was "hard to say" whether she would live long enough to be able to have cubs.  "The biggest concern for giant pandas is a low birth rate - so when you take that into account, we would need to know that the situation is getting better before we would consider breeding," he said.
Ex-Mirror chief regrets unlawful behaviour at newspaper  Sly Bailey said she had 'no knowledge' of the activities and wanted 'to put the record straight'.  Sly Bailey, former Trinity Mirror chief executive, arrives at the High Court  The former chief executive of Trinity Mirror has apologised for wrongdoing at the company's newspapers  and has said her former board knew very little about some of the tactics used to expose information on individuals.  Sly Bailey said she had “no knowledge” of the activities, but wanted “to put the record straight” about the activities.  Speaking outside court, she said: “I am sorry that I was not aware of what was happening. I am sorry that my former board knew very little of this.”  She also said “I didn’t know it happened at Mirror Group until 12 or 15 years ago when I became chief executive”.  The hearing comes after the High Court was told Sly Bailey and former deputy editor Peter McKay had to be warned about the unlawful activities that took place at the Mirror Group Newspapers (MGN) between 1994 and 2011.  Both were at the centre of the allegations of unlawful information gathering at the newspaper that was brought by 64 former staff members.  The news was revealed in a civil lawsuit brought by former members of Mirror Group against MGNs.  The court heard that in 2006 the former Mirror Group editor-in-chief Sly Bailey and her deputy were warned in a board meeting that the company's press offices were “potentially in a highly illegal and dangerous situation”.  The hearing continues
Wages overtake inflation for first time in nearly two year  Average pay growth outpacing inflation suggests the squeeze on living costs may be starting to ease.  Average pay growth rose above inflation for the first time in almost two years, in a sign that the squeeze on living costs may be starting to ease.  W ages grew 9.9% year-on-year in the three months to February, ahead of a 9.4% inflation rate for the same period, the Office for National Statistics said.  The latest figures are the first signs of wages growing above the headline inflation rate since the pandemic, as annual pay growth has risen to its highest level since 2019.  But while wages have overtaken inflation in the past few months, the gap is set to close this year as official figures show that prices are rising at their highest level since 1982.  The ONS said: “In February 2023, average weekly earnings before bonuses rose to £650 from £580 in February 2022, resulting in a growth rate of 9.9%. The percentage of employees experiencing 4% annual pay growth is 84%, the highest proportion since records began in June 2001.”  “However, inflation increased to 10.1% in February from 10% in January, resulting in average weekly earnings growth of 1.2%.”  The latest ONS report showed that earnings growth in February was 9.9%, the highest rate since the pandemic.  The figures came after official figures showed that average earnings rose 7.3% year-on-year in January. This marked the first slowdown since the start of the pandemic.  However, the ONS said that workers have been hit by a cost of living crisis and the squeeze on living standards “is likely to become increasingly severe over the next few months as inflation continues to rise”.  The government is under pressure to act as it faces calls for more support as it enters the height of the cost of living crisis.  <strong>Analysis from Beth Rigby, political editor:</strong>  The chancellor should be worried. The figures show that workers have been hit by a cost of living crisis and the squeeze on living standards is likely to become increasingly severe in the coming months.  It’s not just that the ONS reports that inflation reached its highest level since 1982 last year, but that workers are getting their salaries faster than consumer prices.  This may have been the case in December but it is only now, after more than 12 months of high inflation, that salaries are actually beginning to outperform it.  This has led to increasing calls for ministers to do more to help households with the rising cost of living, particularly as inflation is set to reach 8.7% in April, when the fuel levy comes into effect.  This means that workers are receiving their salaries faster than consumer prices.  The pressure will intensify on the Chancellor in May, when his Spring statement is due, for some kind of action.  The latest ONS data will put additional pressure on the government to do something more than it has promised to date, as it prepares to hand in its statement and budget in three months.  Ministers will also be aware that next week’s UK Labor market report will show the latest figures on wages as they try to get a grip on wage pressures on inflation.  The ONS figures will intensify the pressure on the government to do more.  Average pay growth of 9.9% in the year to February compared to the highest level in 12 months – but there are calls for action.  <strong>What will the Chancellor do?</strong>  The Chancellor is under pressure to intervene to reduce the cost of living amid the highest inflation in the UK since 1982.  There are growing calls for the Treasury to give more money directly to UK households to deal with the rising cost of living.  In addition to the cost of living crisis, wages have also increased faster than the overall rise in prices in February.  This was the first time wages have grown faster than inflation for almost two years.  The Office for National Statistics (ONS) said: “In February 2023, average weekly earnings before bonuses rose to £650 from £580 in February 2022, resulting in a growth rate of 9.9%.  The Chancellor is under pressure to do more to help families with rising prices, in what is likely to be the toughest cost of living year ever seen.  But the Treasury is preparing to put some of the blame on the Bank of England for rising prices, and the government will seek to protect energy bills by the end of June, with the £200 increase to households.  The government is preparing to hand in its Spring statement and budget in three months, so the Chancellor will be under pressure to make announcements on tax and spending.  A Downing Street source said: “We have said repeatedly that we cannot continue to borrow money for ever and it is time to start taking back control of our debt and finances.”  <strong>What the economic experts say?</strong>  Commenting on the data, Mike Jakeman, senior partner at the CBI, said: “Inflation has come down slightly,
ardiff: Ely riot aftermath like an absolute warzone - BBC reporter  Cars set alight and fireworks thrown at police as up to people gathered in Ely.  "It's an absolute warzone here."  That's how the BBC reporter Tomos Morgan described the aftermath of a riot that broke out in Cardiff  on Saturday night following the Rugby League World Cup final.At least three police officers and three others have been hurt as riot police came into the crowd, with some reports suggesting officers tried to stop the crowd from marching to St Mary's Church.  The crowd marched after the match in the north of the city - in what local politicians branded as "an act of sectarianism".A large police presence was seen in Ely from around 8pm on Saturday, with riot vans and police on horseback patrolling.  <strong>Ely riots: Police, protesters and rioters march through Cardiff</strong>A large police presence was seen in Ely from around 8pm on Saturday, with riot vans and police on horseback patrolling.  <strong>Ely riots: Huge police presence in Cardiff ahead of final</strong>People have gathered at St David's Dewi Sant Church on Commercial Street in Ely as violence has been reported between police and protesters in the city after the rugby league final.  <strong>Ely riots: Riot cops in Cardiff after riotous final match</strong>Large crowds, including many who were carrying placards, marched in the city of Cardiff after Wales’ 20-10 win over Australia in the rugby league final.  <strong>Riots: A look at the aftermath of recent UK protest violence</strong>Riots broke out in cities across the UK after the England-Croatia football match, and at the Rugby League World Cup final.  <strong>BBC reporter arrested after filming protests in Cardiff</strong>BBC reporter arrested after filming protests in Cardiff A police van has been torched and a police horse ridden off after trouble in Cardiff's St. Mary's Street following Saturday night's Rugby League World Cup Final. It was 'just a bit of football' after all...  <strong>BBC reporter arrested after filming riots in Cardiff</strong>BBC reporter arrested after filming riots in Cardiff. You could see them coming. Police should not have used horses  Rioters in Ely in the early hours of Sunday.Riot police have stormed the Ely area of Cardiff after clashes between protesters and rival groups.Riots: A look at the aftermath of recent UK protest violence 16:43, Sat, Nov 12, 2022 | UPDATED: 16:44, Sat, Nov 12, 2022 The city was rocked by riots after Saturday night's final, which Wales beat Australia 20-10 to win its first World Cup.England boss Gareth Southgate after the defeat - and also on the night of riots in Cardiff - was condemned for suggesting England players would have “behaved better”.  "It's an absolute warzone here. "This is absolutely horrific, it's like an absolute warzone here. The city has been hit by the riots that followed England's defeat by the Croatian side in the semi-final clash on Wednesday and followed Wales' Rugby League World Cup final triumph on Saturday." Picture: Tomos Morgan"I've been in Ely for the last seven years, I've never seen anything like it." The BBC reported that the trouble started when the bus carrying the Australian players returned to Cardiff after the final. "It's like an absolutely, absolute warzone. The footage shows a riot squad running into a crowd. Cars set alight and fireworks thrown at police as up to people gathered in Ely. The Metropolitan Police are investigating a number of football-related offences.  " Tomos Morgan, who filmed this dramatic footage for the BBC, said the atmosphere was "chaotic". Others are seen holding signs with words such as "no surrender" and "no surrender to English imperialism". The streets, a short walk from Ely Cathedral, are normally lined with people heading home after the pubs in the area have closed.. Ely, Cardiff - Wales have won rugby league. Others wave Welsh flags in support. Picture: Tomos Morgan"It's like a real warzone here. The crowd, however, dispersed after about two hours as people started to get taxis to take them home..  " Ely riot aftermath, with rioters throwing fireworks at police, Cardiff. Picture: Tomos Morgan"There are fireworks going off everywhere and I've seen police cars on fire. The Wales side arrived back at Cardiff Airport in the early hours of Sunday, with an estimated 10,000 fans expected to greet them. And there are all sorts of things coming at us from a wide variety of directions." Ely riot aftermath, with rioters throwing fireworks at police, Cardiff. Picture: Tomos MorganA police spokeswoman said four officers and three others were hurt in disturbances outside St Mary's Church. The trouble followed Saturday night's match where thousands of Welsh fans flooded onto streets near St Mary's Church in Ely to party following Wales' 20-10 victory over Australia.  In response to a question on Sky Sports about the "serious incident" in the city, one of the officers involved said: "We've had a serious incident, which involves a number of members of the public and officers.
ina Cresswell: Case of woman sued over sex attack claim reopened  Nina Cresswell said tattoo artist William Hay attacked her after they met in a nightclub in 2010.  Nina Cresswell said she hopes police will "learn lessons" from reinvestigating her case  Police will reinvestigate after a  woman said a tattoo artist sexually assaulted her at nightclubs.  The victim said she met the suspect at a club in Leeds before he forced her to have sex at a flat.  The woman said she complained to police in 2016 and her case was later dropped after investigators had doubts.  However, West Yorkshire Police is now reinvestigating after Nina Cresswell, the woman who had claimed the attack, claimed she wanted her case to be reopened.  Police are looking to identify two men in connection with a sexual assault on a woman in Leeds.  The 26-year-old woman said she was sexually assaulted following an incident in Leeds city centre on Wednesday, 17 August.  In a press release, detectives described the incidents as an "isolated" one-off attack, and urged any witnesses or those who have information about them to come forward.  Anyone with information is asked to contact Leeds Police via 101, quoting crime reference 13200380522.  Information can also be given online at www.leeds.police.uk or by calling the independent charity Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.  A man is wanted over a series of alleged sex crimes against women in Manchester over a six month period.  The 28-year-old is wanted on recall to prison after he failed to attend court.  Police said he is suspected of two counts of sexual assault, one count of assault and one of voyeurism, which is said to have happened in Manchester city centre in July, August and September.  He is also wanted on a recall to prison, according to police.  Police in South Tyneside have released a CCTV image of a man they would like to speak to as part of their investigation into three alleged sexual assaults in the South Shields area in March.  Officers were called to reports of a rape on Queen Street at about 01:35, after a woman was allegedly raped at the bus shelter outside McDonald's at around 18:30.  Police have been given permission to release this image, to assist with their investigation and identify this man.  The 25-year-old suspect has been identified, and is currently helping officers with their enquiries.  Anyone who recognises the man or was in the area at the time, and may have witnessed anything suspicious, is urged to contact police on 101, quoting reference number 0062 of 31/03/2019.  A man's been jailed for five years for raping and sexually assaulting a young girl in London.  The girl was a primary school pupil when she was abused in north-west London between December 2015 and January 2016.  The 29-year-old, who cannot be named due to legal reasons, was sentenced at Southwark Crown Court yesterday after he pleaded guilty to a total of 22 charges.  These included 12 counts of rape, five counts of sexual assault and five counts of assault by penetration.  He was also jailed for four years for a child pornography offence.  A teenage girl has been rescued after being held captive for months at a south-east London house, where she was abused.  The 16-year-old had been held hostage since October, police say.  Detectives found the girl yesterday.  Officers from the Met's child abuse investigation team attended a residential property in Lewisham, where the girl had been taken against her will, and the teenager was rescued.  A man, 40, was arrested on suspicion of kidnap and two counts of rape. He has been bailed pending further investigation.  An inquiry into police response in the investigation to sex attacks in Leicester has been announced by the IOPC.  The watchdog said the "complex" investigation, involving crimes dating back to 2010, will include an early look at evidence gathered and "early reflections" on decisions made.  The investigation comes after police were accused of failing to act on a claim made by an officer in 2017.  The officer accused a female police inspector of carrying out a sex attack, according to a new report.  An internal investigation found the allegation was "not substantiated".  The 21-year-old man arrested yesterday is now assisting police with their enquiries.  Four men are due to appear at the Old Bailey after being charged over an alleged child rape and sexual assault in west London last year.  A child was reportedly sexually assaulted and raped in January 2018 by a group of men, in the area between Greenford and Uxbridge, police said.  They were remanded in custody after appearing in court today.
Police Scotland to vet staff against national databa  Officers will be checked against a national database following similar moves in other parts of the UK.  Police Scotland is to check staff against national databases as it steps up vetting of its officers.  It follows the case of David Carrick who admitted dozens of rape and sexual offences  against 12 women, including a female PC he served with for five years.  Police Scotland has introduced a new vetting process in which officers will be checked against the Protection of Freedoms Act, National Rehabilitation Service (NPS), Barred List, Protecting Vulnerable Groups (PVG), Serious Crime (SC) and Terrorist Assets (TAR) registers.  The force will also be looking at whether officers may be subject to other registers.  A Police Scotland spokesman said the force was keen to be "fully transparent about this process."  He said: "Officers are vetted prior to the appointment and revetted on a regular basis in line with the National Vetting and De-Vetting Standards.  "Police Scotland is also keen to be fully transparent about the vetting process it undertakes to safeguard the public and its own staff and is happy for that to be discussed with officers or interested parties."  The spokesman continued: "Police officers in Scotland are subjected to the same level of vetting as their counterparts in England and Wales, in line with the Police (Vetting of Persons Employed) (Scotland) Order 2002.  "Under these orders, any person who is subject to a criminal sanction, or who is deemed a risk to the public is subject to vetting, as are those who have a history of domestic violence.  "There have been previous instances where individuals have subsequently appeared on a Police database, following the vetting of their application.  "The force will now include a requirement for applicants to consent to Police Scotland vetting against relevant databases. This is part of our ongoing commitment to ensure the safety of the public, colleagues and officers."  Police Scotland says it has always undertaken vetting procedures for all staff, regardless of the individual's role, and the new move will be no different.  It says vetting is also done regularly for all staff in Scotland.  The move comes after it emerged Carrick, who had a record of sexual harassment of female colleagues, was not properly vetted when he began working for the police in 2001.  The Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC) said the conduct vetting undertaken by Police Scotland in 2021 was appropriate.  But it said the force had taken responsibility for the fact he had been employed as a police officer for 16 years prior to being reported and convicted.  It had said there should have been an earlier assessment that should have flagged up that he was a risk to the public.  The force had also asked its vetting partner, Disclosure Scotland, for further guidance on how it could have spotted Carrick's past.  And it had also asked the NPS and Barred List to review Carrick's history to try to identify factors which may have contributed to his past offending.  A further investigation is being carried out by the IOPC into the role played by his former employer when he was employed by Bedfordshire Police.  The force's professional standards department has also looked into Carrick's conduct since joining Bedfordshire Police in 2000.  It has concluded that the force was not aware of a pattern of Carrick's behaviour before he was dismissed from the service for gross misconduct in 2020.  The investigation, however, did not consider a wider range of offences which may have contributed to Carrick's offending, nor whether the police had acted in the best interests of the service's other officers.  Carrick, who was jailed for 30 years in October, was found to be on a banned list for domestic abuse for the second time in July 2019.  The list was a "black and amber list" used by forces in England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland to alert other agencies to offenders who are convicted of domestic violence offences and could be a danger to women in their lives.  Following Carrick's convictions, the NPS was asked by the College of Policing if it could have spotted his past abuse of the women he came across as a police officer.  It said its decision to do so would depend on what was "known about the case at the time" and that it could not assess the past conduct of Carrick due to concerns about "the potential prejudice that this may have on the subsequent prosecution and the outcome of that prosecution."
Officials urged Braverman to halt asylum plan for RAF Scampton  Civil servants told the home secretary to halt plans to house asylum seekers at the Lincolnshire site.  Civil servants advised the home secretary to abandon plans to house asylum seekers at a former RAF base in Lincolnshire, it has emerged.  In an email from  a senior department of levelling up official to Priti Patel in March 2021, it is claimed that the RAF Scampton base, in Holbeach, is “not suitable” and should not be used for housing.  “This is not a scheme that is suitable for the site,” the email stated. “A military base is a very different property asset.”  A second email two months later urged the home secretary to review the plans, as it was feared that a proposal to relocate more than 1,000 people to the base would cause “massive social disruption” and “inconvenience” to locals in Holbeach and surrounding areas.  It said that the area was already designated as an area of significant urban deprivation by the government’s levelling up office, and that it would be “really difficult to bring this site into use”.  “We understand that there is potential demand from the community [in Holbeach] to have this site to house people. But this is quite a big site and it’s quite isolated,” it continued.  The email suggested that the community in Holbeach could make more practical use of the RAF Scampton base, suggesting it “might be better used by the armed forces as they continue to downsize their presence in the UK”.  The department of leveling up and housing is currently seeking new private sector sites to be used for housing asylum seekers. The decision to house people at the RAF Scampton base was taken during the Covid-19 lockdown in 2020 by the ministry of defense.  The government said in a statement on Friday that it was working with the military to repurpose the RAF Scampton base, but that “the site will not be used for long-term accommodation, but for short-term accommodation, with most of the facilities remaining in operational use”.  In March 2021, the government announced that it had leased the site to a consortium of housing developers, including The Big Issue Foundation, to be used for up to two years.  In a statement issued in April, the government said that 660 people were then living in temporary accommodation at the site and that it could provide up to 1,128 homes for people who had been granted asylum in the UK.  However, the government has faced criticism for its decision to house asylum seekers at a former military base, as the UK is a signatory to the Geneva Convention and the European Refugee Convention.  The human rights charity Liberty has argued that housing asylum seekers in former military bases breaches the law as it would be inconsistent with the requirement under the convention to “prevent all forms of discrimination and to ensure the equal rights of men and women”, the charity said.  A spokesperson for the home secretary declined to comment on what action, if any, has been taken on the recommendations.
Ukraine war: Satellite images reveal Russian defences before major assault  Fortifications against Ukraine's counter-attack are uncovered by a BBC analysis of satellite images.  A beach resort bristling with fortifications. A major road lined with anti-tank ditches. Satellite analysis by BBC Verify has uncovered some of the extensive defences built by  Russia across Ukraine in preparation for a major assault.These fortifications were captured by satellite images taken around February 26, just days before Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine.  The Russian military's advance across the country was not immediately successful, and the defence structures may have only been a "minor hindrance" to the invasion, said Professor Michael Clarke, director of the Royal United Services Institute think-tank in London.  Russia's invasion of Ukraine is a war of attrition. But in the north of the country, where troops fought their way into Kyiv from Belarus via the north of Ukraine and the west, Russia's attempts to take the Ukrainian capital in the first two weeks of the invasion appear to have been slowed by fortifications.  Russia has invested "considerable resources" in building those fortifications, says the think-tank. Ukraine has also built its own defences, "but these are smaller in scale and are not concentrated around the most significant roads and routes".  At the main town of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second biggest, the roads are lined with anti-tank ditches and sandbags. It's also been busy digging trenches and laying mines. The town is on a line to the Russian city of Belgorod, just 35km (22 miles) to the west of the border.  Analysis of the roads leading towards Belgorod reveals that Russia had prepared to deploy its troops for a major attack on Ukraine's second-biggest city.  Satellite images captured on the night of 26 February, four days after the invasion started, revealed that there were dozens of anti-tank ditches, road blockages and military vehicles on the roads leading towards Kharkiv.  The fortifications on the west were part of what Ukraine's military later described as the "first wave of Russia's assault". That assault was quickly put off course, however, by Russian mistakes and by Ukrainian resistance.  Professor Andrew Futter, of King's College London, told BBC Verify: "Russia is a force which has fought and lost wars. They have learnt, as have the Western militaries, that it's a mistake to launch a force of overwhelming size and strength without any thought to the consequences of the battle ahead."  The road between Belgorod and Kharkiv had been booby trapped with mines, according to a report by the Institute for the Study of War think-tank, and a local journalist posted photos of what appeared to be military vehicles.  A Russian source in Belgorod told the Associated Press that a large group of Russian soldiers from the 1st Guards Tank Army were withdrawn to defend Russia's Belgorod region, which borders Kharkiv. The source said troops had also been withdrawn from Ukraine's Kherson region, which is a few hundred kilometres (miles) to the south of Kharkiv.  The road leading to Kyiv is similarly lined with anti-tank ditches and road blocks.  The BBC's defence correspondent Jonathan Beale says the ditches - sometimes referred to as "turtlebacks" - were also being dug in the area of the Chernobyl exclusion zone around the site of the 1986 nuclear disaster.  He says the ditches were not immediately detectable by satellite.  Other anti-tank ditches are hidden in the shadow of the northern Ukrainian city of Chernihiv, where Russian soldiers are facing the Ukrainian military's 40th Separate Mechanised Brigade, and in the south around the town of Sloviansk in the Donetsk Oblast.  Russia appears to have made use of the fortifications to good effect. But in other parts of Ukraine, the military build-up was apparently not successful.  BBC
Weeks into the war, how much closer is Israel to its goal?  Israel wants to destroy Hamas, but there are questions over whether that is achievable.  It's nearly two weeks since Israel launched its ground offensive into Gaza and more than a month since it began intensive air strikes against Hamas, all in response to  Hamas's recent rocket attacks.The violence erupted on May 10 and has killed at least 450 Palestinians and 12 Israelis. It is the most intense fighting between Israel and Hamas since Israel's 2014 war with the militant group.  Israel's objective, as laid out by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu at the start of the operation, was "to completely destroy the military capability of Hamas" and that "the operation would not end until we completely destroyed the terror infrastructure".Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem said earlier this month that the group was not intending to launch a general or full-scale confrontation with Israel, but to respond to Israeli aggression and to defend itself.  <strong>Israel launches new wave of air strikes on Gaza after 'terrorist attack'</strong>Israel has launched a new wave of air strikes on Gaza on Thursday following a 'terrorist attack' with the Hamas military wing claiming responsibility. The latest violence is the most intense since 2014's 50 day war. The question I pose to my friend in Israel is why did the Hamas missiles fail to reach their targets? Why didn't they kill innocent people in the Gaza strip. Do these missiles even have anti-air missiles on them? Where did the Israeli's missiles come from? Why are missiles being sent into Israel if they are not working? So Israel launches another wave of killing with the excuse of the missiles failed to reach the target. The media has a problem with using the term missile failure because Hamas is a terrorist group.  <strong>Israel launches fresh air strikes after Palestinian militants kill five</strong>Israel has responded with air strikes after militants killed five Israelis on Thursday with mortars from Gaza, the deadliest attack on civilians in years. Is this a conflict or an assassination of children? So why are the missiles not landing in the target?  <strong>Gaza violence: Israel to extend ground offensive after airstrikes kill 10 - BBC News</strong>The Israeli military says it will extend its ground operation in the Gaza Strip after airstrikes killed 10 people. The Hamas militia claimed responsibility for the latest attacks in retaliation for the strikes. So the only way Israel can attack back is to destroy their cities and kill more of them? This was all for nothing really. And more will suffer for nothing. Why do we care? Why is this a story in the news? This is the same story of Israel and Palestine since 1950. No new story here.  <strong>Israel to extend ground invasion of Gaza after airstrikes</strong>Israel has carried out further airstrikes on Gaza after militants fired mortars killing five people in the first such attack on civilian targets in months. Why, is the ground offensive the only way that can solve the issue? What a waste of time. And it's not like Hamas have any better infrastructure, the ground invasion is not going to change that. And what about the Israeli soldiers? They need better weapons too!  <strong>Israeli airstrikes in Gaza after mortar shells kill five civilians</strong>Israel says its air force struck Hamas targets across the Gaza Strip, including in a military compound.  <strong>'They will take revenge': Israeli strikes hit Hamas facilities</strong>Israel said Wednesday it had struck a number of Hamas targets and had downed a rocket fired at Jerusalem, after deadly mortar attacks from Gaza killed five Israelis and wounded 20. Hamas, meanwhile, warned Israel it is ‘the enemy of all Muslims and everyone who supports Palestine’ after its militants killed five Israeli civilians with a mortar attack. They will take revenge for this act as well. I think the problem with the world is it does not understand and does not acknowledge what is happening in Palestine.  27 May 2021 (Updated: 10:41 UTC) Israeli troops are now searching for militants and tunnels across the Gaza Strip, as the ground offensive in the besieged territory continues, according to the Israeli army.The United States has condemned a deadly Palestinian militant attack in Israel on Wednesday that wounded at least 15 people in the town of Eshcol.12 mins ago Israel says it will extend its Gaza offensive after mortar attacks that kill 5 people Israeli forces say they will extend their Gaza offensive after mortars from the Palestinian enclave killed five people.Israel to extend ground operation after airstrikes, targeting Hamas A rocket attack killed five Israelis and wounded 15 others on Thursday, hours after militants fired at least seven mortars toward a northern Israeli town, the deadliest cross-border attack on Israeli civilian targets in months.  Image source, AP Image caption, Hamas militant Abdullah Abu Ayyash is one of several Palestinian militants who have been killed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told parliament in his opening speech that he would not allow the rocket attacks on Israeli civilians to continue. However, Israel is yet to meet the goal it has set out for the operation - to completely destroy the military capability of Hamas. Israel has now retaliated with air strikes, killing 10 Palestinians on Thursday. Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem said earlier this month that the
Arsenal 1-3 Manchester City: Pep Guardiola's side go top with victory at Emirates - BBC Sport  Manchester City return to the top of the Premier League for the first time since November as they leapfrog leaders Arsenal with victory at Emirates Stadium.  Last updated on .From the section Premier League  Manchester City  have made it three successive wins in the Premier League as they leapfrog Arsenal to return to the top of the table.  A brace from Kevin de Bruyne saw them overcome the first-half red card shown to Ederson after just two minutes and then an own goal from Gabriel Magalhaes.  The Brazilian forward thought he had scored with a header from a City corner but it was ruled out for offside.  The goal City needed came in the 18th minute with a sumptuous ball from Jack Grealish found De Bruyne with his head.  De Bruyne had a chance to make it 2-0 but Ederson made a fine save before the City keeper was sent off on the half-hour after he made a goal-kick then ran out of his box, was caught by Gabriel and brought him down.  De Bruyne made it 2-0 in the 41st minute, this time from the penalty spot, but with Gabriel Magalhaes sent off for a second yellow card four minutes later, City were in control.  Grealish set up Kevin De Bruyne for City's second goal at the Emirates  The visitors did not let up in the second half as Gabriel Jesus' deflected cross put the game beyond Arsenal and the former Brazilian international was there to tap home.  Gabriel Jesus was there to tap in City's third goal.Getty Images  Gabriel's own goal left Arsenal with a mountain to climb and they never really got out of that trap, with Gabriel Martinelli's header the only real sight of goal for the home side.  In the end, it was a fourth successive defeat for Arsenal, as well as a third home defeat for Mikel Arteta's side at the Emirates in 2023.  The visitors' two goals came courtesy of set-pieces, meaning they are now unbeaten in 12 Premier League games (W7 D5 L0) when scoring from a dead-ball situation since 2014.  Man City have now not lost any of their last six Premier League games against Arsenal (W3 D3), keeping two clean sheets in each of those. Arsenal have now lost their last four Premier League home games, their joint-longest run without victory at the Emirates in the top-flight since August 2012.  This was the second time the Gunners have lost at the Emirates in their last three home league games (1-2 vs Southampton last season), a record they last recorded back in November 2018.  What was said  Arsenal boss Mikel Arteta: "We cannot accept the situation at the start of the game, and the two goals we conceded. We need to put ourselves in the right position. They scored two really good goals and it is very difficult from there. We need to be better.  "It looks like the ball has touched the keeper, but they are there to make decisions and the line says no.  "It was a clear foul (on Granit Xhaka) when we conceded the second goal, but this is how it is.  "It is a really frustrating result. We did not play well enough at home. We lost some balls out of the midfield, and we were not sharp enough to kill the game.  "The team is in a really tough situation in terms of the results, but I cannot stop the game. I have to be realistic and honest and I must take the responsibility on my shoulders.  "We were not strong enough to control the game when we were ahead and the team lost its character. I cannot control the outside environment.  "It will go down a long way. In the past, we have made a lot of mistakes, and you cannot hide behind it. It has been really difficult for us.  "At the start of the season, I had to accept the challenges, and that we are not there. In the last few weeks, we have created enough to win and we will have to do that again tomorrow.  "There are many things that will happen before the end of the season. I have no doubt about that."  Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola: "We have to win, that is it. If you want to be in the position that we want and we need to be in, we need to win, no ifs and buts.  "We are playing at Arsenal, we want to get points here but we have to win the games. It is that easy.  "I am really proud of the players, I know how hard they worked to be in front of Arsenal but we have to be better.  "The way they play, it is not easy to beat them home or away. I am really proud of the players.  "When the penalty was not given we lost the belief. We can't win the game if the penalty does not get called.  "We need to be better. We create a lot, we are clinical when we need to be but we have
Liam Gallagher announces tour playing Definitely Maybe in entirety  The ex-Oasis star says his 2024 shows will be a celebration of "the most important album of the '90s".  Gallagher said the shows would be a chance for him and fans to "celebrate together"  Liam Gallagher has  announced his first solo tour since the end of Oasis.  In a message on Twitter to his fans, the 50-year-old Manchester singer said: "I'm gonna be doing another tour, playing definitely maybe in full - I'm excited.  "It's gonna be a celebration of that album, and just some of the best songs from some of the best times."  Gallagher called Definitely Maybe his"favourite" album by his band.  He will play the album in full in Manchester, Glasgow and London in April.  A total of 42 dates have been scheduled in England, Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland.  It comes after his record company, Universal, announced that Gallagher was launching a new album and tour later in 2024, but gave no details of what was planned.  The star will play The O2 on 29 April - the same night as the 12th annual BRITs in London.  Tickets for Gallagher's shows go on sale at 09:00 GMT on Wednesday on liamgallagher.com.  A pre-sale is being made available from 10:00 GMT, using the password "BRINGMEBACK".  The dates for the tour are:  * 29 April - The O2, London, England - (also BRITs 2024) * 4 May - The O2, London, England * 7 May - The SSE Hydro, Glasgow, Scotland * 11 May - OVO Hydro, Glasgow, Scotland * 14 May - AO Arena, Manchester, England * 16 May - AO Arena, Manchester, England * 18 May - Utilita Arena, Birmingham, England * 21 May - Motorpoint Arena, Nottingham, England * 23 May - Resorts World Arena, Birmingham, England * 25 May - First Direct Arena, Leeds, England * 28 May - SSE Arena, Wembley, London, England  Liam Gallagher's brother, Oasis guitarist Noel, is set to play a show in the city on 29 May at York Racecourse  The former Oasis frontman recently launched a new solo album and tour in support of his fifth studio record, Down By The River Thames.  The album came a week after Oasis' debut album, Definitely Maybe, turned 30 - and the 50-year-old has paid tribute to it by announcing a run of shows this year celebrating the record in its entirety.  Speaking to Sky News about his new album, the 'Once' singer said: "It's just fun. It's something that I love to do, but not the fame - that's the bit that's a bit tough. It's just the life. Everything's not like it was. So it's good and bad, but you know what, it's always been good and bad. That's life."
When should I turn the heating on?  As it gets colder here are some tips to help you stay warm while trying to keep your energy bills down.  When should I turn the heating on? The temperature is dropping again, and many of us are reaching for our cosy jumpers and winter duvets. So when is  the most cost-effective time to turn on the central heating? And should you be leaving it on all day while you are at work?  <strong>What are the pros and cons of turning on the heating in the winter?</strong>  Central heating can be great for making your home warmer during the winter, but there are a few downsides to leaving it on, such as the increased risk of mould and damp.  If you have to leave the heating on all day, you’ll also have to spend more on your energy bills. But, if you have a thermostat to control your heating, you can set the temperature to go off when you leave and only turn it back on when you’re home.  It’s important to think about how you can reduce your energy use around the house, as this will also reduce your bills. So, for example, always check your boiler for leaks and make sure your radiators are clean and in good condition.  <strong>What are the energy efficient ways to heat a home?</strong>  Using energy efficient appliances around your home will make a big difference to the amount of energy you use. Here are some things you can do:  Replace any incandescent bulbs with LEDs and fluorescent lamps as they use less energy.  If you have a gas boiler, make sure it’s maintained properly to improve its efficiency and save energy.  Insulate your windows with draught excluders to stop air leaks from outside.  Install a heat pump or a water-based heat pump that uses less energy but can be very expensive to install.  Install solar panels to reduce your reliance on fossil fuels and save on your energy bills.  <strong>How to turn the heating off when it’s cold in my house?</strong>  If your house is particularly cold, there are a few things you can do to make it more comfortable. Here are some tips:  Keep your windows shut during the day. This will help prevent draughts and heat loss.  Use an insulating blanket or a curtain rail to protect your windows from the elements.  Use an indoor plant to absorb some of the heat.  Keep a dehumidifier in the bathroom to keep the air circulating and stop the moisture from building up on the walls.  Make sure that the radiators are in good condition and are pointing in the right direction.
ibby Stockholm: Asylum seeker on board barge di  The man who died on the vessel, moored off Dorset, is thought to have taken his own life.  An asylum seeker on board the Bibby Stockholm barge, which houses migrants off the Dorset coast, has died.  Sources told the BBC that the man is  believed to have taken his own life at around 11pm on Saturday.  The man is believed to have suffered from schizophrenia and had been on the barge since June. It is not thought that his death was related to the camp's poor living conditions.  He was transferred to the vessel after arriving in the UK and has been described by those who know him as a "happy soul".  He is believed to have died with the support of medics on the ship and was the only one of the first 30 arrivals known to have died.  The government plans to place a further 50 asylum seekers on the Bibby Stockholm barge after the first batch of 50 moved onto the vessel on June 20.  The barge is moored alongside Portland Bill on Dorset's Jurassic Coast.  The vessel, which is owned by Bibby Offshore, was originally due to accommodate 500 asylum seekers under the Illegal Migration Bill.  Home Secretary Suella Braverman insisted that those who have passed their first point of entry in the UK will not be allowed to "camp" indefinitely.  She added that the legislation was being rushed through the Commons this summer to break the "people smuggling gangs" responsible for the deaths of 27,000 people in the Channel.  Despite its location in the UK, the Bibby Stockholm is technically in international waters because it is outside 12 nautical miles.  But it is still subject to UK law and immigration and criminal offences can be committed on a UK vessel, even if it is not in UK territorial waters.  It is still possible for an offence to be committed on a vessel, even if it is outside territorial waters.  A spokesperson for Bibby Offshore said the "well-being and safety" of all of the occupants onboard is their "number one priority".  "This incident has been reported to the authorities and a full investigation into how this came to be is being undertaken," they added.  "Arrangements are being made for next of kin to be informed and support is in place for all residents, and their mental wellbeing is at the centre of our thoughts.  "The circumstances are being investigated by the police and we are unable to comment any further."  Earlier this year, the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, which is responsible for the Bibby Stockholm barge, said a "variety of measures will be implemented to ensure the well-being and safety of the residents" onboard.  The company also told the BBC in June that the barge had a "rigorous" pre-arrival screening and support regime in place and it has its own nurse.  Those living on the vessel had already raised concerns that their living conditions did not meet basic requirements and said they had been mistreated and isolated.  They also voiced concerns about the lack of privacy and the use of cameras to monitor all residents.  It comes after last week the UN's special rapporteur on the right to adequate housing, Michael Fakhri, wrote to the UK government, raising serious concerns.  It said it would be hard to "find any justification" for the location of the barge, outside the 12-nautical-mile limit, due to the "serious environmental, logistical, and safety concerns".  Mr Fakhri urged the Home Office to "immediately and unconditionally" relocate those living on the barge, citing environmental concerns and that it would be "very difficult to find any justification" for its location outside the 12-nautical-mile limit.  In June, the first cohort of asylum seekers were moved to the vessel, which is owned by Bibby Offshore, from Napier Barracks in Folkestone, Kent.  The home office has said the barge was being used to "temporarily host migrants pending their removal or determination".  Earlier this week, more than 300 asylum seekers protested against their conditions in the camp, saying it was "inhuman".  Speaking to the BBC, the men and women, who are all from Ukraine, claimed their basic needs were not being met and there was "no life" on board.  They also said they had been forced to live in "harsh" living conditions and were not receiving medical help for serious illnesses.  (c) Sky News 2023: Bibby Stockholm barge: Man dies on Bibby Stockholm asylum seeker barge
Ukraine war: Russia accused of using phosphorus bombs in Bakhmut  Rights groups warn the chemical is "notorious for the severity of the injuries it causes".  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  Ukraine has accused Russia of attacking the besieged city of Bak hmut with illegal weapons in the form of so-called phosphorous munitions.  The city has seen intense fighting over the last year, with Russian troops making advances in the last month amid Ukraine's winter offensive.  "Today they fired phosphorus shells from Grad multiple rocket launchers. This is an illegal weapon under the Geneva Convention. We don't know how many people suffered [from it]," said Serhiy Cherevatyi, spokesperson of the Ukrainian army's Eastern group, in a report to Reuters.  "The Russian army is using every possible weapon to try and take Bakhmut and in this case it's phosphorous shells," Oleksandr Pavlyuk, spokesperson for the 36th Separate Coastal Defence Brigade, told CNN.  "We've had many cases of severe chemical burns, unfortunately.  "It's also a very high explosive device, so this is a danger not only to people but also to dogs and cats that have been wounded or killed by these shells."  Rights groups, such as the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), also condemned the weapons, while the United States embassy in Kyiv warned of their widespread use and "the high risks they pose to civilian populations".  The Geneva Convention prohibits the use of incendiary weapons and prohibits the use of explosive weapons with a wide area of effect near populated areas or on other vulnerable objects.  'Disgusting'  Phosphorus munitions are weapons that can cause "burns up to 20cm deep", which "tend to cause blindness and disfigurement".  "Phosphorus weapons are illegal under international humanitarian law," said Alex Neve, president of Amnesty International Canada.  "[But] they do not deter Russia from deploying them. In fact, they have become more frequent, as have their civilian casualties and the attacks on civilian buildings and infrastructure used for civilian purposes."  In January 2023, Russia fired a large number of phosphorus-tipped rockets into areas near Bakhmut, according to ICRC, and Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelenskyy claimed civilians were deliberately targeted in the attack.  Last month, Russian forces used phosphorus weapons to attack Ukraine's southern city of Mykolaiv, an attack that injured an estimated 20 people.  "It's horrific what the Russians are doing, and we have to have people hold them accountable for the war crimes that they are perpetrating in our country," said Pavlyuk.  "But we don't need words, we need deeds, and we need them to stop killing civilians, including women and children."  BBC
Parents' unimaginable grief a year after Uvalde massacr  The Ramirez's lives changed forever a year ago when a gunman killed their daughter alongside 20 others.  Jessica and Ryan Ramirez do not live in Uvalde anymore.  The pain of spending every day in the city where their vivacious  10-year-old daughter was gunned down in her classroom is too much, said Jessica.“It is just a reminder of what happened,” Jessica said of the yellow teddy bears still left at the elementary school.  <strong>Inside Uvalde’s Fight to Rebuild</strong>The Texas town at the heart of a deadly school shooting is also grappling with recovery.  <strong>Texas towns have been through this before; now residents brace for 'Uvalde 2.0'</strong>Some Uvalde area residents fear that if the shooting were to happen again, the community might do little to address the issues before it happens again.  <strong>Police Chief Who Resigned in Uvalde School Shooting Incident Issues Statement</strong>The former police chief involved in the response to the Uvalde school shooting has issued his first public statement.  <strong>Uvalde residents, survivors and advocates demand state action to prevent mass shootings</strong>'I don't trust the police. They've proven that to us again and again,' said Maria Meza, a survivor of the shooting. 'If these children were white and if these children were brown, they would not have been standing in the corridor for 47 minutes.' A lot of people are calling on the U.S. Senate to pass gun safety legislation, which they haven’t done yet. And they won’t if you don’t force them to. Tell your senators to pass universal background checks and a ban on assault weapons. Stop calling them a ‘mental health’ issue. Their mental illness was manufactured by them.  <strong>Uvalde, Texas, school district releases 9-minute recording of police dispatch call after the shooting</strong>Police officials received a 9-minute recording of the phone call involving a school official who said the shooter was no longer inside the building where the Robb Elementary School massacre unfolded.  <strong>Inside Uvalde’s Fight to Rebuild</strong>The Texas town at the heart of a deadly school shooting is also grappling with recovery.  Email article Parents' unimaginable grief a year after Uvalde massacre May 24, 2023 at 3:01 p.29-second shot rang out.02:34 In the days following the Uvalde elementary school shooting last May, a group of parents and advocates protested outside the home of the Texas Department of Public Safety.and the Texas Department of Public Safety.  m.| UPDATED: May 24, 2023 at 3:01 p. “It was just a sound.m. On Saturday, one of the survivors and his parents, a Uvalde resident, joined them in a protest. Jessica and Ryan Ramirez do not live in Uvalde anymore.  “This is the way it’s supposed to be at this school: the way I imagine my first day of school was,” said Daniel C. “We don’t feel safe.  . I just know I am not scared anymore." “It was something out of a movie,” he said. “It is just a reminder of what happened,” Jessica said of the yellow teddy bears still left at the elementary school. The pain of spending every day in the city where their vivacious 10-year-old daughter was gunned down in her classroom is too much for the Ramirez’s, said Jessica. I am not scared of these people. They have since moved away, to a new town where they feel the danger is not as present. “It was the most horrifying thing that I have ever seen in my life. “It is just a reminder of what happened,” Jessica said of the yellow teddy bears still left at the elementary school.  And I’m not going to die.” Texas Department of Public Safety Chief Steven McCraw testified that his agency's own investigation found the response of police "was unconscionable.  After Uvalde Elementary School was breached by a gunman in May 2022, the Ramirez’s lost their daughter, and they lost their faith in the city that once was their home. Advertisement The family was in the city visiting friends and family in the days before the massacre. Advertisement It was a day of firsts, a day of first-of-its-kind-in-Uvalde moments that will change the community forever. The police chief resigned as criticism continued to mount. The day the Ramirez’s first heard that their daughter had been killed was horrific, and they will never forget it.” In the days after the shooting, Jessica said she began to hear about the response of the Uvalde Police Department that was called to respond to the situation at the elementary school.  I have a son. It did not take long for their phones to fill up with notifications from journalists from around the world. The investigation found, McCraw told the legislature, that the officers who engaged with gunman Salvador Ramos “did absolutely nothing and did nothing that was proportionate” to the threat.” He said that despite his resignation, he will continue to
Wild lion Loonkiito, 'one of the world's oldest', killed in Kenya  "Symbol of resilience" Loonkiito was killed after preying on livestock in a Kenyan village on Wednesday.  At 19, Loonkiito had a longer life than most wild lions  A wild male lion believed  to be the oldest lion ever recorded in Africa, has been killed by villagers after he preyed on livestock in western Kenya.  The lion, known locally as "one of the world's oldest", was killed by poachers in the Lewa Wildlife Conservancy, just hours after being tranquillised by a wildlife official, the Kenyan police said.  According to The Guardian, Loonkiito, was about 19 years old - a long life for a wild lion.  The lion was lured with meat and then caught, police said, but escaped from a trap after being tranquilised.  "LION is now dead. I can confirm the news. Loonkiito, one of the world's oldest, killed after preying on livestock in a village," Kenyan wildlife conservationist Richard Leakey said in a statement, posting on Twitter.  Conservationists believe his life expectancy to be up to 20 years in the wild, making him an anomaly.
Sara Sharif: So badly injured mum 'did not recognise her' in mortuary  Police in Surrey want to speak to three family members in relation to their murder investigation.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Watch: Sara's mother describes moment she saw  her daughter for the first time The coroner said there had been "no attempt to make it look like a domestic".The mother of a teenage girl found dead in Surrey was “extremely worried” about her before her body was discovered, a court has heard.Surrey Police found Sara Sharif dead at her home in Woking on September 10..  I'm sorry but this video isn't available in your country.The woman who gave birth to her, Sara’s mother, said she couldn’t recognise her from the first moment they hugged."There was no evidence that Mr Sharif was attempting to dispose of the body or remove it from the address, nor of a significant amount of blood being present.Dr.The coroner for Surrey South East, Emma Hart, said the medical cause of death was severe internal injuries and "multiple blunt injuries.Elizabeth Reid told a press conference: "Sara’s body was very badly injured, very badly.This was likely to have occurred over a period of at least two days.".  "A blunt instrument was used in the killing."When the mother arrived at the address with her own children later that day she was extremely worried and upset." Dr Reid, assistant coroner for Surrey South East, said Sara died from her injuries about 12 hours after her mother saw her." She added that the woman had "very distinctive burn marks".In addition, Sara had injuries, including head and neck injuries and blunt trauma injuries.  " She said she was "concerned in my assessment by the fact that there was no evidence of any injury or any injury that is suspicious.There was no evidence of what she did in that time or any attempt to make it look like a domestic." In her closing remarks, Dr Reid said police have been given a file, but there is no criminal case.Police said they were investigating "several other lines of inquiry in relation to this murder inquiry" and want to talk to three members of the family.Surrey's deputy chief officer of the force, Kevin Brown, said: "I must be clear we don’t have any indication that Mr Sharif has any involvement in this murder inquiry.  " He said: "We are here today to provide reassurance and the community are a part of that.We are working with the public to support them.We understand this must feel like an ordeal for the family and friends of the victim." Sara’s mother is also being questioned after being taken to hospital for treatment earlier this month.Surrey’s deputy chief officer Kevin Brown said he was "concerned about her state of mind" during the interview process.  Police have previously said the 10-year-old's mother and her partner had been in contact with social services in Pakistan.Police and social services were said to have been monitoring Sara's wellbeing in Pakistan since September.Her mother later said she did not want to return with Sara to the country in case she was held back from travelling to the UK, where she lived, for 15 days before being allowed to enter via Heathrow.Sara's father, Urfan Sharif, who is believed to be in Pakistan, has been arrested in connection with the murder inquiry..
Gaza's hospitals treating emergency cases only as fuel runs lo  Hospitals warn that life-saving equipment will soon stop working without fuel for their generators.  Aid agencies warn people will die if life-saving medical equipment in hospitals stops working because of fuel shortages  Hospitals in the Gaza Strip are taking emergency cases only,  as fuel is expected to run out soon for generators in the health facilities.   At least 1,616 people were wounded by gunfire in Gaza since 29 May, said the Ministry of Health, including 146 children and 93 women. At least 361 people, including 214 children and 143 women, were killed since 29 May, including those killed in rocket attacks on Israel, including 73 children and 31 women.   <strong>Hospitals warn that life-saving equipment will soon stop working without fuel for their generators</strong>  "There is no electricity available, no fuel. So the Gaza Strip hospitals are treating emergency cases only," Dr Mohammed Abu-Raed, spokesperson of the Ministry of Health in the Gaza Strip, told Anadolu Agency.  Abu-Raed said the Gaza power plant runs on diesel but is not supplying diesel to hospitals to provide electricity for medical equipment, including X-ray machines and blood transfusion equipment.  "Some hospitals are taking emergency cases only because of the shortage of diesel fuel. Also, the shortage of diesel means there is no more water supply. Some hospitals are using water tanks. All the medical equipment stopped working because of the shortage of fuel," he said.  Gaza's main fuel supplier, the Palestinian Authority (PA), said last week that it was not able to import enough fuel because of the blockade imposed on Gaza.  The blockade was imposed by Israel and Egypt. In recent years, the amount of oil entering the blockaded coastal enclave dropped drastically, hitting the electricity generation plants' ability to run and causing power cuts and water shortages.   On Wednesday, a spokesman of the PA's electricity company in Gaza, Mohammad Al-Qawasmi, said the fuel company was able to enter Gaza with 100,000 liters (264,200 pounds) of fuel on Monday, which helped run the power plant for only two hours.  There is now only enough diesel to last two days, Al-Qawasmi said, adding that the power station needs 248,000 liters a day.  <strong>Aid agencies warn people will die if life-saving medical equipment in hospitals stops working because of fuel shortages</strong>  The medical and aid agencies working in Gaza also warned that some life-saving medical equipment will soon stop working if fuel supplies are not replenished soon.  "This is a real crisis for hospitals and medical facilities in the Gaza Strip, as the power and water cuts have affected medical services and life-saving medical equipment," said Dr Khaled Yousef, Head of Palestinian Doctors Network (PDN), and member of the Board of the World Health Organisation's (WHO) Palestinian Chapter.  "The emergency room of Gaza’s Shifa hospital, the largest in the Strip, has started facing problems of running power and water, with the loss of its generators causing the blood bank to run out of blood for urgent treatment," Yousef added.  Khaled Abu Shawar, a spokesperson of the WHO, told Anadolu Agency on Thursday that "life-saving medical equipment at several hospitals and medical facilities in Gaza is about to stop working because of the fuel shortages".  The equipment include CT scanners, X-ray machines, blood transfusion and coagulation machines, ICU, and ventilator machines, among others, Abu Shawar said.  He said there are 243,000 people being treated for chronic diseases. "The shortage of fuel for the power plant and generators at 23 hospitals has forced the authorities to admit only emergency cases," he said.  He said that most of the Gaza Strip hospitals have to run on standby generators, which only last about 3 hours when they are being used to run medical equipment, and that the fuel for the generators is running low.  <strong>"Gaza under siege" </strong>  The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) said in a statement on Thursday that people in Gaza are facing a "humanitarian crisis".  "The people of Gaza are suffering a humanitarian crisis," Peter Maurer, president of the ICRC, said in a statement on Thursday.  "They face chronic shortages of life-saving medical equipment and supplies in hospitals, despite the huge humanitarian needs of the population, while electricity supply in Gaza has been reduced to a few hours each day," he said.  "The ICRC is seriously concerned that without more action now, a devastating humanitarian crisis will result," he said.  He said that medical and relief operations by the ICRC in Gaza will continue, despite the shortage of fuel that affects medical services, but "we are not able to make significant progress."  "In recent years, we have seen the situation in Gaza deteriorate with increased restrictions on movement, access to the territory, and international financial flows. This has worsened the dire humanitarian situation for people in Gaza and reduced the opportunities for us and others to make a difference," he said.
'Long colds' are a thing, like long Covid say expert  Common 'long cold' symptoms people reported include a cough, stomach pain, and diarrhoea.  "Long colds" can be a thing in the same way that "long Covid" is, with some people experiencing prolonged symptoms after an initial infection, according  to experts.“I didn’t really understand what it is, to be honest, and my experience has been different to a lot of other people's.“My symptoms have been around for quite a while – almost 2 months,” he explained to BuzzFeed News.  "It's very scary, you think that you're going to die," they explained.“I had it in January and now I still have it." "My first day, I woke up and I had a high temperature," he said to BuzzFeed News. "I went to the gym, I came home, and I had a high temperature again, and I had muscle pain, and a headache and a cough."  <strong>What you need to know about living with long Covid</strong>Long Covid is a term for symptoms that continue after infection with COVID-19 and may include fatigue, muscle pain, fever, breathlessness, brain fog, anxiety, palpitations, shortness of breath and insomnia  <strong>Covid vaccine: Why do I feel so tired and why does my body feel stiff and achy?</strong>Covid-19: Can you be affected by the virus's effect on the body even if you've had the vaccine?  <strong>Long Covid - symptoms you may still feel up to 12 weeks later</strong>A long Covid survey found half of those surveyed were still experiencing symptoms a year later.  <strong>The UK's long-awaited plan for a post-Covid world, explained</strong>A report from the Global Commission on the Economy and COVID-19, set up by UNCTAD, urges the world to adopt a bold plan to deal with COVID-19 and create a better world post pandemic  <strong>My mum is still living in hospital after Covid, almost a year on – here are the issues she faces</strong>After surviving Covid in April last year, my mum is still battling its after-effects, including being trapped in hospital for six months. Why can't they get her home already? I'm afraid that's another story of people who are still battling with Covid's side effects now more than a year later. Our bodies are so resilient. This is not normal.  <strong>‘It’s been a long journey': 76-year-old survivor of Covid explains how life has changed since March</strong>"They were trying to figure out what was happening," the patient said. "They took my heart rate, they checked everything."
Pakistan police bust organ trafficking ring that took kidneys from hundred  The alleged leader is accused of illegally harvesting kidneys from more than 300 people in Pakistan.  Eight members of an organ trafficking ring in north-east Pakistan have been arrested, police say.  The ring's alleged leader, Fawad Mukhtar , is accused of illegally harvesting organs from more than 300 patients in the city of Sargodha, The Express Tribune reported.  Police say they found a dozen kidneys hidden in 15-gallon drums in the basement of Mukhtar's home.  Mr Mukhtar and his alleged ring members were detained during a raid Wednesday night at their offices and at the homes of the suspect's accomplices in different towns in Punjab province, police said.  Mr Mukhtar reportedly had worked as a doctor in a hospital in Karachi for eight years before relocating to Sargodha.  It was not immediately clear whether Mr Mukhtar is still practicing medicine in Pakistan.  According to the Express Tribune, Mr Mukhtar was arrested twice before.  He was accused of selling organs to poor patients in 2008 and 2014.  Organ trafficking is a common phenomenon in Pakistan, and organs are being illegally sold for a variety of reasons including high cost and difficulty in finding a suitable donor.  The government has made it illegal to sell body parts, but the problem persists.  SOURCE: BBC News
Gaza Strip in maps: How life has changed in two month  Find out how much has changed in the Gaza Strip since Israel began its military response to Hamas's attacks on 7 October.  Almost two million people in Gaza - more than 85% of the population - are reported to have fled their  homes for safety as an air, land and sea offensive continues into its ninth day.Israeli jets and drones have carried out hundreds of attacks since Israel launched its ground, air and sea operation targeting militants and the terror group's military infrastructure in Gaza on 7 October, with heavy shelling and the bombing of dozens of buildings across the besieged enclave - including Gaza's only international hospital.  <strong>Watch live: Biden, Zelensky meeting as Russia ramps up offensive in east of Ukraine</strong>US President Joe Biden's surprise visit to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky was to include the possibility of a new round of aid that could be worth billions of dollars and is likely to include munitions to support Ukraine's much-delayed counteroffensive.  <strong>The latest on the Israel-Gaza conflict</strong>On Day 10 of the fighting in Gaza, more than 2,000 Palestinians and hundreds of Israelis were killed.  <strong>US announces plan to train and equip the Ukrainian Army to fight in the eastern Ukraine</strong>The plan could take up to a year. I feel it is too early to train. Let them learn the art of guerilla warfare. That's how we won the Falklands war. The war is over. Stop playing with war. Let them learn through experience. And why do we not help with training of the Syrian Army? They are fighting a big war with ISIS and other groups. How many people have died in the Syrian War over the last 8 years? That's for you to investigate.  <strong>How long has it been since Putin's invasion of Ukraine?</strong>From the Russian invasion of February 24 to now, it has been 745 days of war in Ukraine. That's just under two and a half years.  <strong>I have cancer and the hospital won’t pay for the drugs I need to survive</strong>The government has repeatedly broken its promises to reduce drug prices. Is this a new one? I'd be happy to help out as I have some time.  <strong>I’ve been diagnosed with breast cancer - but I have to wait up to five years to get the drugs I need</strong>A new law allowing doctors to prescribe the drugs that have been approved in the EU but are not licensed in Ireland is coming into effect next week. It’s good that the laws are about to change to enable access to drugs but how long does it take for these drugs to get approved in Ireland?? I don't think we should have to wait 5 years for drugs but it would be good to know if this will speed up the process. There was a bill passed in 2020. I don't know why it's not in place yet. It should be a minimum of 2 years or as soon as they are approved by the EMA.  By Saturday evening 19 October 2023 16:39 Almost two million people in Gaza - more than 85% of the population - are reported to have fled their homes for safety as an air, land and sea offensive continues into its ninth day.10:39 GMT Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and US President Joe Biden meet for their first formal one-to-one meeting in Kyiv on Thursday morning Advertisement Biden and Zelensky’s talks follow a phone call last week in which Biden reaffirmed US support for Ukraine.A view of Khan Younis, an Israeli-blockaded city in Gaza.Advertisement 1.  Israeli jets and drones have carried out hundreds of attacks since Israel launched its ground, air and sea operation targeting militants and the terror group's military infrastructure in Gaza on 7 October, with heavy shelling and the bombing of dozens of buildings across the besieged enclave - including Gaza's only international hospital. The Israel Defence Forces (IDF) said on Saturday it had destroyed about 2,000 terror targets in just over a week. He was not scheduled to attend the Kyiv Security Forum. About 2,071 people, including 1,400 children, have been killed in the enclave and at least 107 in Israel, according to latest figures. It is one of the last remaining pockets of armed resistance inside Gaza, but militants from Hamas have been battling Israeli forces there for months. The total death toll in Israel, including a soldier and a woman who was killed in a car-ramming attack by a Palestinian woman in a west Jerusalem neighbourhood, is at least 1,400, according to the latest figures. 10:47 GMT Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky has urged the world to “do everything” to prevent another war like the Holocaust, a reference to the genocides committed by Nazi Germany in 1941-1945. Israel has not released an update of its own fatalities since Thursday. "What are we waiting for? What are we waiting for? This war must stop,” he said.  Around 2. His visit to Kyiv is the latest effort to
an President Biden put pressure on the DUP?  Joe Biden will briefly meet party leaders in Belfast before travelling to the Republic of Ireland.  President Biden with Prime Minister Rishi Sunak, US Ambassador to the UK Jane Hartley and US Envoy to Northern Ireland Joe Kennedy  It was to be the moment of triumph with President Biden jet ting to Britain on what was a planned state visit.  The Americans had put pressure on the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) to return to Stormont after they walked away from the powersharing talks with a bitter row over the post-Brexit trading arrangements.  After months of posturing the DUP has finally bowed to White House pressure.  But it is not the DUP who have the DUP.  In 2016 the DUP went to the referendum to vote to stay within the European Union but there were warnings ahead of that referendum that if they left it would damage the relationship between the North and Britain.  The result of that vote was a Brexit that the North voted overwhelmingly to reject and it is this that was the cause of the DUP walking out of the powersharing talks.  Joe Biden has met Prime Minister Boris Johnson.  The Americans have been watching the British Government and have been watching with amazement the handling of Northern Ireland.  The Democrats in the US are always going to support their old friends – they just cannot find many in the United Kingdom.  But when it comes to a US state visit, as a former Vice-President and US President they have the leverage.  The Biden visit is also part of a new relationship with the British Government.  During the campaign the Democrats said that Britain had been taken over by the ultra-right.  That is a big part of the problem with the Democrats, the right wing element of the party.  They are also looking down the barrel at their own future in the United States.  The Democrats are increasingly concerned over the state of the American economy.  They have also been caught out, in the case of the Biden visit, by a very well thought out plan of the British Government to welcome their old friends back from the continent.  The British Government were already planning for the State Visit so Biden’s schedule had to be altered and he will spend more time in Northern Ireland meeting civil society groups before heading to the Republic of Ireland.  The Americans have had a very good relationship with Britain and the Government did welcome the Democrats on their visit to the North.  They should welcome President Biden today – he was the first American President to visit the North and should be welcomed.  The Americans are not happy with the UK Government’s handling of Brexit but they still think they have a good relationship with Britain, which has to be welcomed, especially given the state of play in the Democrats.
Solid gold coin found in charity collection can  Scotland's Charity Air Ambulance described the discovery as a "Christmas cracker".  The 2015 American Gold Buffalo 50-dollar coin contains one-troy ounce (31.1g) of pure gold  A foreign coin deposited into a charity  fundraising jar at a shop was accidentally left and forgotten.  The coins has sold for $5,243 on eBay.
Fierce gun battle on Israeli highway  Motorists duck for cover as multiple shots are fired during a gun battle on Route 4, between Ashdod and the Gaza border.  Motorists ducked for cover as a gun battle broke out on the Route 4 highway, between Ashdod and the Gaza border.   A Palestinian man is shot dead, near Ashkelon in southern Israel, a day after his car was damaged and the two occupants were forced to flee in the direction of Ashkelon. The passenger was identified as 29 year-old Palestinian resident of the Hebron district.  Israeli police say the victim was a former member of Palestinian Islamic Jihad who was wanted on a number of outstanding arrest warrants, and who was carrying an explosive device.  A Palestinian woman was stabbed in the stomach in front of her children, as she walked to prayer at the Damascus Gate, in the Old City of Jerusalem.  Palestinian terrorist, 18 year-old Omar al-Abed, from East Jerusalem, was shot dead by police in Hebron, after ramming a police vehicle and then stabbing an Israeli officer.  A Palestinian was shot dead by the Israeli military, in Qalandia refugee camp, outside of Jerusalem.  A Palestinian, identified as Ibrahim Shkirya, 17, was seriously wounded by Israeli soldiers, near the Gaza border. A man was seriously wounded, near the Tapuah junction, in the northern West Bank, after falling off a hill.  A Palestinian, identified as Ibrahim Al-Saddawy, 17, was shot and killed, near the Keren checkpoint, in Samaria.
AI creators must study consciousness, experts warn  An open letter calls on the technology sector to research consciousness, as AI becomes more advanced.  An open letter signed by dozens of academics from around the world calls on artificial-intelligence developers to learn more about consciousness, as AI systems become more advanced.  "It is no  longer tenable that AI systems are merely designed to learn, or to imitate, or to generalize," the letter, published on Tuesday by 36 scientists, reads. "They must learn to think as well. That is, they need to be brought to a level of consciousness."  Scientists should learn about consciousness as AI development accelerates.  "Human beings think. That’s how we make sense of the world and how we act upon the world. The purpose of human life is to be conscious," the letter reads. "Consciousness is therefore the essence of what it is to be human. Consciousness cannot be replicated in a computer. Our goal, as creators, is not to replicate the human brain or any other component of the human animal, but rather to build systems whose capacities for thinking, for creativity, and for human-centered design match the level that we consider to be adequate to our species' capacities."  The letter is co-signed by 36 scientists from around the world and calls for AI creators to study human consciousness, as AI develops. The signatories represent a wide range of fields of research, including philosophy, science, neuroscience, engineering, ethics, and politics.  The scientists, many of whom are based in the U.S., want tech companies and AI researchers to study consciousness, and to learn how human minds work. They want AI development to be influenced by this knowledge.  "By the time AI systems pass the Turing test — which is now just a matter of time — AI will have learned to deceive humans into thinking it is human, just as humans deceive other humans into thinking they are human. In addition, AI could come to act on the world to an extent and in ways we find unacceptably destructive," the letter states.  In the letter, the scientists call for AI to learn about human consciousness, in order to create AI systems that are safe for humans to interact with.  "AI is already an incredibly powerful tool, one whose effects are increasingly visible in our personal lives. Now AI is beginning to enter the public space and to make critical decisions affecting entire populations. This is no longer possible without AI having a level of consciousness that is conscious of its role in the world and that is sensitive to the feelings of all sentient beings, including those who can neither consent nor consent otherwise.  "If AI does not become conscious and is unable to consider the impact that it may have on the world and on individual humans, we will have a massive threat to human civilization. AI is a threat not just to our way of life, it is a threat to human life. We must create AI systems that are safe for humans to interact with.
HS patient 'stuck in hospital with months to live'  Charlotte Mills-Murray, 34, said decisions over her home care had been repeatedly delayed.  Charlotte Mills-Murray said there had been "a lot of tears" after repeated setbacks in returning home  A woman who may only have months to live has  called for a review of her case as she remains "stuck in hospital with no end in sight".  Charlotte Mills-Murray, 34, said she was left with no end date for care package, leaving her to "spend hours on the phone" every day with hospital and health board staff.  The mother of four, from Dumfries, was originally due to go home in January 2019 but it is only now that she is being looked at for a "care package".  A care package would mean she could be cared for at home or at a respite facility after she was given just eight months to live.  Ms Mills-Murray said her case should be reviewed as there had been "a lot of tears".  She said: "I just feel like we are so neglected."  Ms Mills-Murray has been living in hospital since her diagnosis of anaplastic thyroid cancer in 2017.  The 34-year-old said that her illness - which has spread to her lung and bone marrow - means she has had to have "lots of blood tests" and she has to have intravenous chemotherapy twice a month.  Ms Mills-Murray said: "I have been home all my life, my four daughters have been born at home.  "I have lived in a lot of different homes. I have done lots of different jobs. My dream was to be able to have a home that I can put my girls into and take care of.  "That is all I want to do. I don't want to spend my life in hospital. That is not how I want to live my life."  Ms Mills-Murray said there had been "constant" delays with the care package.  She said she was diagnosed with thyroid cancer in December 2017 and had a lobectomy the following February before undergoing a whole thyroidectomy and neck dissection in June 2018.  She was then told that she had bone marrow cancer and a tumour in her right lung in February 2019 and in May she had a CT scan.  Doctors then told her that she had stage four cancer on 14 November.  Ms Mills-Murray said: "From March I have been stuck in hospital. I have tried to get my life back together, a care package.  "I have been trying to get it since December, trying to do it properly.  "On Monday I was told I had cancer in my lungs and I have been trying for a care package since then.  "I think it should have been done since March.  "There has been a lot of tears, a lot of frustration."  Ms Mills-Murray said it had been particularly distressing because she was also expecting her fifth child and she could not leave her hospital bed to spend time with her four daughters.  Her partner and their children, aged eight, 10, 11 and 12, had been sleeping in hospital when she was allowed in but the situation had changed in the past month.  Ms Mills-Murray said her children were having to stay with friends while their mother spent time in hospital.  A Dumfries and Galloway Health and Social Care Partnership said: "Ms Mills-Murray's condition is complex and we do not make decisions lightly.  "Her care package has been delayed as she required more time to build trust and confidence.  "Her complex needs are being managed by a multidisciplinary team and we are confident they will lead to her leaving hospital and receiving her care package as soon as possible."
Russia luring migrants from Finnish border for war in Ukrain  The BBC has seen evidence of foreigners without valid visas being sent to a military camp near Ukraine.  Many migrants who gathered on the Russian side of the Finnish border have been detained because of out-of-date visas  Russia is trying to recruit foreign migrants,  especially ethnic Russians and Ukrainians, for the war in Ukraine.  BBC News learned that the Russian authorities in the Ingushetia region, near the border with Finland, have deployed at least 1000 migrants on a military base and then sent them to the front.  According to one migrant, some of them were taken to a military camp by bus, and others were driven to them by their own car. Some have been forced to change their name.  The migrants told the BBC that they were promised a salary of 270,000 rubles (£4000) per month, including housing. But they were deceived.  The BBC also learned that, according to a statement released in late May by a local official, 106 of them were missing. According to this statement, one was killed and 26 were injured.  The military, who are not trained in military fighting, are also not trained in combat. There is no equipment. This is the real "meat grinder" in Ukraine, said Oleksandr Pavlenko, head of the information and analytical department of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defense.  At least 10 people, including a former Ukrainian soldier who is now fighting with the Russian army, said that the Russian authorities are using migrants as cannon fodder.  It is said that the recruitment of migrants to fight in Ukraine has been going on for at least 2 years.  In January 2021, the first recruitment advertisement was posted by the Dagestan Interior Ministry on a website popular in Dagestan, where a post said: "The best thing is to be the first to go to the front. There are not enough people for the army. You can earn money and get an expensive pension in retirement."  As a result of this recruitment campaign, 64 Russians entered the war in Ukraine.  In the same way, in October 2021, the Russian side announced that it would use foreign mercenaries in the "special military operation". Since then, some foreigners have been seen in videos circulating on social media fighting with the Russian army, although it is difficult to determine which side they are on.  "A man of a different nationality, wearing a helmet and a camouflage suit, killed a Ukrainian soldier," said Alexander Dugin, a nationalist who is close to the Russian president.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on April 25, 2022 that some mercenaries fighting with the Russian army were brought in from foreign countries.  Russia is trying to use migrant workers who have been recruited in Russia to replace its own soldiers killed and injured, as well as to divert attention from its military losses in Ukraine. This is according to intelligence reports from the West.  The BBC contacted the Russian embassy in London for comment. The embassy did not respond to repeated requests for comment.  A spokesperson for the Russian Ministry of Defense told the BBC: "This is a complete lie, it is pure speculation. The situation in the Donbas region in Ukraine has not changed, and there have been no significant changes in the last few months. There are no changes in the number of people in the Russian army. The situation on the battlefield has not changed."  Russia was forced to use migrants because of its military losses in Ukraine
'Scope for compromise' on teachers' pay - minister  Education Secretary Shirley-Anne Somerville says talks with unions were "constructive and helpful".  Further strikes could be looming  The Scottish government said there is "potential scope for compromise" following talks with teaching unions in a bid to prevent further strikes.  The Scottish  Government said the discussions between teachers' unions and government officials were "positive and constructive", however, further strikes remain a possibility unless there is "an alternative to the industrial action".  A Scottish Government spokeswoman said: "It is very clear that the best way to resolve this is at the negotiating table. It is positive that a significant body of our workforce are now on strike, and unions are taking that as an indicator that the employers do not understand the depth of anger that is building up amongst teaching staff.  "Both the teachers and the employer are now in a position where they can come together to resolve these issues, which cannot be resolved through industrial action.  "The talks were very positive and constructive. We would ask that unions continue with those discussions, bearing in mind that many teaching staff have decided to take this action.  "The Government is very keen to see that we can move on to resolving some of the issues. Both unions and the Government should recognise that there is potential scope for compromise and to move forward together on the issues that matter to our teaching workforce.”  Union members strike over pay and working conditions  The union members are striking over pay and working conditions.  The EIS, the NAHT and NASUWT have all called industrial action in recent weeks.  EIS General Secretary Andrea Bradley said: “We are calling for a meaningful conversation with the Scottish Government on our members’ concerns, rather than more confrontational action.  “It is essential that we get a substantive agreement on pay and workload that addresses teacher wellbeing at this time of huge pressures on our schools.”  Unions reject government 'offer'  EIS General Secretary Andrea Bradley said the government’s pay offer “falls substantially short” of staff pay increases in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.  The government said the "offer to teachers to resolve the dispute was not a take it or leave it ultimatum but rather a willingness to work with unions to find a solution."  Education Secretary Shirley-Anne Somerville added: “Whilst the talks were constructive and helpful, further strikes remain a possibility unless an alternative to the industrial action is found.  “I hope that now unions can see that there is potential for compromise and are willing to continue this positive engagement on pay, workload and wellbeing.  “That is why we are now offering to meet the unions without pre-conditions."  EIS general secretary Andrea Bradley has said her members will hold more strikes as part of a "summer of action" unless the Scottish Government improves its pay offer.  Union members are striking over pay and working conditions.  The EIS and NASUWT union members are due to walkout on 22 May and the NAHT union members have said they are "ready to do more industrial action" unless their pay is increased.  The Scottish Government has offered to sit down with the unions to talk about improvements to teachers' pay and wellbeing.  The EIS said the "government offer of more than 1% across all grades is a huge disappointment" and urged the government to "take action to increase teacher pay and workload" immediately.  Meanwhile, the NAHT Scottish Council have said it will consider the Scottish Government's offer to talk about improving teachers' pay, which is 1% for all teachers, and how to address workloads and working conditions.
York City Marathon: Runner with stoma withdraws over bag rul  Race organisers say Gayle Redman cannot run wearing a vest carrying stoma supplies and water.  Gayle Redman says she cannot safely run marathons without her vest  A woman has pulled out of running the New York City Marathon after organisers said she could  not wear the vest containing stoma supplies and water for her colostomy bag.Gayle Redman from Halifax has previously taken part in the 25-mile event and has also run the Boston and London marathons.  Gayle, 56, said she needed to ensure she had water on hand at all times because of a stoma condition.But organisers said the bag must be secured inside a running vest.Gayle said she would be running to raise money for Crohn's and Colitis UK.  Gayle says she feels 'let down'A representative for New York City Marathon said: "As per New York Marathon's race rules, runners must carry their hydration system in a running belt or vest. It is not permitted to attach the water to a runner's belt or pack for race day. headtopics.com  Gayle's vestGayle, who has been on the New York City Marathon starter list for 2020, said it felt like "a slap in the face" and had caused "extreme frustration".She said: "I've run over 20 marathons and this is the first time I have had this come up. I was feeling quite frustrated.  Gayle said it was "frustrating and disheartening" not to be allowed to run the 26 miles in her regular running clothes."It's the 5km that's the problem, it can easily be carried in your hand," she added. "It's the marathon that is an issue."  Gayle said she had also been banned from running marathons in Australia because she needed to use water bottles, despite being cleared by her doctor.She has now withdrawn from the marathon, which takes place in New York on Sunday.  Gayle Redman's vest.Image source, Gayle Redman  Gayle said it was frustrating not to be able to run the marathon in her normal running gear.Image source, Gayle Redman Image caption, She has been told by the marathon organisers that she must wear a vest containing her stoma supplies and water headtopics.com  "I would love to see if I could change the rules," she said. "I would love to see how many people take part with a colostomy."A New York City Marathon representative said it was not up to the event to make exceptions to its policies.  Gayle Redman (left) has pulled out of the New York City Marathon.Image source, Gayle Redman Image caption, Gayle is pictured here with her running buddy, IanRead more: BBC Newsnight »  If I had stoma supplies I would have an alarm on my watch. So would I if I was running 26 miles! Why don't you get a real job
Year 6 Sats: Children 'distraught' after reading paper  A head teachers' union says even staff struggled to understand parts of a Year 6 reading paper.  Parents and teachers of Year 6 pupils say a Sats reading paper was so difficult it left children in tears.  One mother told  the BBC the exam "brought tears to the eyes of the child and to their teacher".  A teacher, who wanted to remain anonymous, said the exam was like a "Chinese puzzle, but for literacy".  The Year 6 paper, which was given by Kent, had 40 questions.  Some of the questions were about a poem, 'The Little Red Hen', while others were multiple-choice.  But for some children, it was too challenging.  A mother of a Year 6 pupil who sat the exam in September, spoke to the BBC anonymously about what happened in her home.  The mum told the BBC her 10-year-old son struggled to complete his English paper and he found some questions, like "which adjective best describes the title?", "too difficult to understand".  The boy, who she does not want to be named, became "frustrated and upset" and "started to cry".  "He was reading and looking at the questions, but just couldn't focus on the questions," she said.  "He said to me 'I can't read the questions, they're too complicated'."  But another mother of a Year 6 pupil said she was impressed by what her son had achieved.  She said he had found some questions more challenging than others but it was only for a couple of questions that he was struggling.  The Sats are a series of exams, usually taken at the end of Year 6, that tests primary school pupils on maths, English and science.  The head of the National Association of Head Teachers, Paul Whiteman, said the Year 6 exam questions seemed to have "disproportionate levels of difficulty".  "As someone who has been a head teacher for 25 years, it was really quite unusual to see some of the things on the paper. It was certainly one of the more challenging ones I've encountered," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.  "I was looking at the paper and trying to work out whether I'd been asked to solve a Chinese puzzle and what the solution to that was, and it just didn't seem particularly sensible at all, and I was hoping I was missing something."  He said teachers were "left frustrated" and children were "distraught" when they finished the exam.  "It's not something we've seen before," he added.  Mr Whiteman also said the "level of difficulty" of the exam "really did go over the top" as children felt "they'd done as well as they could and just didn't know the right answer".  Mr Whiteman said the examination for writing in Kent had "similarly poor quality questions", but "the English one was even more challenging than that".  He said some of the questions were "just so convoluted and so unnecessarily long".  The results will not be published in schools until the end of January 2020.  A Department for Education spokesperson said: "All the questions in the English paper were designed by the exam board to assess Year 6 children’s understanding of the content and to be challenging but fair.  "It is not unusual for some schools to administer pilot papers to a representative sample of children. These papers help the exam board improve the standard of papers.  "The DfE takes any concerns raised seriously and the exam board will be asked to investigate and provide details of their actions to resolve any issues."  A spokesperson for the exam board CCEA said: “It is important to be transparent about the questions which were asked in these pilot papers and, to this end, we will do so when the results are issued, to include all the questions that were asked.”  Education: How are children and young people affected by the exam scandal?  Why was there a rush for papers?  The head teachers' union says the "level of difficulty of the exam" was "way over the top" and "frustrated" teachers.  It comes after a school in Leicestershire was forced to cancel a celebration day after it gave pupils Year 6 English tests.  Pupils at two other schools in Leicestershire said they were given a similar paper.  In Scotland, pupils in English and mathematics will also take Sats-style papers in November to measure their progress at the end of primary school.  BBC
Ron DeSantis 2024 campaign launch hit by Twitter tech glitch  After a bumpy start, Florida governor Ron DeSantis sets out his bid to become US president.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  Ron DeSantis's long-awaited entry into the  2024 presidential race has been beset by technical difficulties.  The campaign of Florida governor Ron DeSantis was forced to pause registrations for donors on his website after it hit technical problems.  The Florida governor is expected to officially announce his bid for the Republican presidential nomination next month.  Former US president Donald Trump is widely expected to announce his candidacy in May.
In pictures: Northern Lights make lively display  Chances of seeing aurora increase as the Sun nears the peak of its 11-year cycle.  Auroras were spotted on Elgin, Moray, on the north coast of Scotland - a cause for celebration, as this person on the beach shows  If you have a clear  view tonight, send us your pictures to BBCScotlandNews  In pictures:Northern Lights make lively display.  Northern Lights: Scotland's winter night sky  The lights can occur whenever the solar wind collides with electrically charged particles in the upper atmosphere.  In pictures:Northern Lights display  The Aurora Borealis appear over Moray and Scotland  The BBC News website will be unavailable on 30 December from 04:30-08:30 GMT.  'Northern Lights' appear above Scottish city on Christmas Eve  In pictures:A rare sighting of the northern lights above the River Calder on Christmas Eve.  Northern Lights: A look inside the aurora hunters  Aurora Borealis - or Northern Lights - light up skies over Orkney Islands  In pictures:A rare sighting of the northern lights over the River Calder on Christmas Eve.  A brief glimpse of the Northern Lights can be seen above the River Calder in West Yorkshire  How the Northern Lights look like from the International Space Station  As the weather clears, the aurora is set to make a big show this evening (12 December)  The Aurora Borealis - or Northern Lights - will continue to put on a good display over the coming weeks, according to the Met Office  Northern Lights: How to find and watch the show  'I've seen people dancing in the snow, laughing and saying, 'Northern Lights, Northern Lights, oh, what a thrill'  You will be able to see the northern lights this week in Scotland, according to the Met Office  What are the northern lights?  The lights were seen across the south of Scotland  The northern lights were seen over the Scottish countryside on Friday and into the early hours of Saturday  People across the north of the country reported watching the lights in the sky  They are caused by charged particles flowing from the sun into the earth's atmosphere at high altitudes  The northern lights can be seen in parts of the UK tonight (25 April) - but why?  More than a million people live in northern Scotland, but only a small number of them have actually seen the lights. And those who have watched them were either shocked, delighted or simply baffled.  What exactly are the northern lights, and what causes them?  Where were they seen?  What can we expect next?  Northern Lights: what are the lights, and how can I see them?  Where are the best places to see the lights from?  What do I need to know about solar flares?  What can be expected?  How can I track them?  What causes the northern lights?  What are the auroras?  In pictures: Northern Lights - what are they and where are they?  How is the current flare affecting the Earth?
Hartlepool: Terror probe murder accused appears in court  Ahmed Alid is accused of killing a 70-year-old in Hartlepool and trying to murder a second man.  A man has appeared in court charged with the murder of a 70-year-old in Hartlepool. The man, who appeared at a short hearing at Teesside Magistrates’ Court via video link from HMP Durham, was remanded in custody.  He faces two further charges of attempted murder and has been remanded until a hearing at Teesside Crown Court on Monday, March 27, when he is expected to enter pleas.The 33-year-old, who was wearing grey clothes, has been charged in connection with the incident on September 1 last year on the beach at Hartlepool Marina.“I am remanded in custody until that court appearance on March 27,” presiding district judge Helen Cousins told the defendant.  Please use a link to a source for your claims! Just because something was on the news doesn't mean it's factual. The defendant was remanded into custody before a hearing on 27th March, no indication whether he has pleaded guilty or not  <strong>Man charged with murder of 70-year-old man in Hartlepool</strong>Police charged Ahmed Alid, 33, with the murder of 70-year-old Christopher Thompson in September 2022, alongside two counts of attempted murder. He will next appear before Teesside Crown Court on Monday  <strong>Man 'stabbed to death' on Hartlepool beach</strong>Police investigating a stabbing at Hartlepool Marina are appealing for more witnesses. So far, we've seen 54 men who have been stabbed to death in the past two years in the UK.  <strong>Man charged with murder of Christopher Thompson in Hartlepool</strong>A man has been charged with the murder of a 70-year-old in Hartlepool. Ahmed Alid, 33, of Hartlepool, faces one charge of murder, one of attempted murder and one of possession of a knife in relation to the alleged incident on Seaton Carew beach on September 1 last year. He also denies the offence in which the charge relates to Christopher Thompson. Ahmed Alid, 33, of Hartlepool, was charged by detectives in connection with a stabbing outside the Seaton Carew Marina last September. Teesside Live understands the alleged victim had serious injuries but was still alive when paramedics arrived. The investigation is still ongoing and officers have been speaking to a number of witnesses in the days since. Mr Thompson, also known as ‘Chris’, was taken to hospital in the early hours of September 1. He died from his injuries a short time later. Ahmed Alid, 33, of Hartlepool, has now been charged with murder, possession of a knife and two counts of attempted murder in relation to the incident. Police have appealed for witnesses and are still appealing for anyone who can help the investigation to get in contact. In an appeal, Detective Inspector Laura Hannon said: “We have arrested and charged a man in connection with this investigation and are making significant progress to identify those who may have witnessed the incident in the Marina or other members of the public who saw anything suspicious. “We continue to appeal to anyone who can help us with this investigation to come forward.”  <strong>Man in critical condition after being stabbed in Hartlepool</strong>Teesside Police were called to the scene after an emergency call at 1.57am on Thursday, where they discovered a man had been stabbed in the stomach.  <strong>A man has been charged after a woman was stabbed in Hartlepool</strong>Teesside Police were called to the scene after an emergency call at 1.57am on Thursday, where they discovered a man had been stabbed in the stomach.  <strong>Man dies and two other people are injured after stabbing in Hartlepool</strong>Police have been called to Seaton Carew Marina in Hartlepool on Thursday evening. Police in Hartlepool have confirmed the incident is not being treated as terrorism related. The investigation is...
aterham dog attack: Dog walker was mauled to death  The 28-year-old woman from London was walking a number of dogs when she was killed in an attack.  Police cordons remain in place near the scene  A dog walker was mauled to death after being set upon while out walking  her dogs.  The victim, in her late 20s or early 30s, was attacked in a lane off Walthamstow village near to Epping Forest in Walthamstow, east London.  She had been with other people who were walking a number of dogs and was killed by a pair of dogs.  A spokesman for the Met Police said: “Shortly after 7.20pm on Sunday, the victim was walking a number of dogs with a group in a lane off Chingford Road close to Walthamstow village.  “Her dogs were being walked by another person.  “As she walked along the lane, two dogs which were being walked by a woman and a man approached the victim and the man and woman’s dogs.  “The victim was bitten in the face and taken to hospital where she later died of her injuries.  “The dogs involved in the attack were a German Shepherd and a pit bull.  “The male involved in the attack has been arrested on suspicion of assault and criminal damage and has been taken to an east London police station where he remains in custody.”  The Met added: “Police and officers from the RSPCA are examining the dogs.  “An incident room has been set up to investigate. A post-mortem examination will be carried out in due course.  “Next of kin are yet to be identified.  “At this early stage it is believed there were other people walking their dogs on the lane at the time of the incident and they are being spoken to by police.  “Officers are trying to establish the circumstances of this tragic incident.”  The Met said police, officers from the RSPCA and a London Ambulance Service air ambulance were all called to the scene just after 7.10pm.  The woman was taken to hospital where she was pronounced dead.  A force spokesman said: “Officers have been in the Waltham Forest area since Sunday afternoon where a number of dogs have been seized and a cordon set up around the scene.  “Searches have been carried out this evening at an address in Waltham Forest with the help of Metropolitan Police dogs.”  Police said they will not confirm the breed or gender of the dogs involved in the incident for operational reasons.
urt Young: Oscar-nominated Rocky actor dies aged 83  Young was nominated for an Oscar for playing Rocky's brother-in-law Paulie in the film franchise.  Actor Burt Young, best known for playing Paulie Pennino in the Rocky films, has died at the age of 83 .The veteran of stage and screen passed away on Wednesday, TMZ reports.The cause of his death was not confirmed.  He had been diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, otherwise known as ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease, in 2021, which leads to the death of motor nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord.AdvertisementIt left the 84-year-old 'weaker and more physically impaired' and he relied on a wheelchair to get around.  BurtYoung RIP  <strong>Tributes paid to ‘lovely’ actor, 83, who died in his sleep</strong>Tributes have been paid to an actor who died in his sleep, aged just 83. Actor Burt Young passed away after suffering a brain hemorrhage. The actor, who starred alongside Sylvester Stallone in the 'Rocky' franchise, died at 8:40 on Wednesday … And this is what you choose to write about today? Well this is pathetic.  <strong>Actor Burt Young dies after suffering ‘brutal’ brain haemorrhage</strong>Actor dies aged 83 after suffering a 'brutal' brain haemorrhage  <strong>Actor Burt Young, 83, dies in his sleep aged 84</strong>Actor Burt Young, who starred alongside Sylvester Stallone in Rocky, has died.  <strong>Burt Young, 83, Rocky star, dies aged 84</strong>The actor, who starred alongside Sylvester Stallone in the ‘Rocky’ films, dies aged 84 at his home in Florida. RIP What do you mean...he doesn't want to be famous like a lot of the other 'stars' who make the news, get the publicity, and then vanish in the blink of an eye... RIP  <strong>The 'Rocky' actor who starred alongside Sylvester Stallone dies at 84</strong>Burt Young, who starred alongside Sylvester Stallone in the Rocky film series, has passed away at the age of 84. rip burt Young  <strong>Obituary: Actor Burt Young, Rocky co-star, dies aged 83</strong>He was best known for his role as Rocky’s brother-in-law in the Rocky films, playing him in four of the six Rocky films.  A beloved Hollywood actor has died aged 83.Burt Young, who played Rocky Balboa’s brother-in-law and neighbour Paulie Pennino in the Rocky film series, has died.Burt Young, the actor best known for playing Paulie Pennino in the Rocky film franchise, has died aged 83 after suffering a brain haemorrhage in the Florida home he shared with his wife.A popular Italian-American actor best known for his work in the Rocky film franchise has died aged 84.  The veteran of stage and screen passed away on Wednesday, TMZ reports. The cause of his death was not confirmed. It was reported in the early hours of Wednesday. He had been diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, otherwise known as ALS or Lou Gehrig's disease, in 2021, which leaves the victim weaker and more physically impaired and he relied on a wheelchair to get around. Young was most known for his portrayal of Rocky Balboa's brother-in-law Paulie Pennino in Rocky, Rocky II, Rocky III, and Rocky IV, appearing as the wise-cracking Italian immigrant who tries to cheer up the newly famous Rocky Balboa. (Image: Getty/MGM) A trailer for the 1977 film Rocky (Image: Getty) In a statement, his family said: "It is with great sadness that we must inform everyone that the iconic, larger than life Paulie Pennino, our father, husband, grandfather, and brother passed away peacefully at home." The statement added: "This world has lost a legend. He passed in his sleep. A post shared by Sylvester Stallone (@officialslystallone) He shared his love of movies with millions of viewers through his role on the action-comedy tv series The Rockford Files, in which he played the role of Red Grant.  We are heartbroken. "He will be sorely missed, and was a favourite of the entire Stallone family. It is too early to say how he died, but it looks like a brain haemorrhage. He was a fighter right until the end, and although he lost the hardest fight of his life he will forever remain with us. He was the strongest man I ever knew." Young appeared in four of the six Rocky films. "He was my favourite brother and I will miss him terribly. His acting was impeccable, his acting was the best that I ever worked with. Our heartfelt condolences and prayers to Sylvester, Sage, and Sophia Stallone. Sylvester and Burt starred in three Rocky films together, with Paulie Pennino appearing as Rocky's brother-in-law in three of the Rocky instalments. 'Rocky' ran for four Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, as well as three Golden Globe wins for Best Picture, Best Actor (Sylvester Stallone) and Best Supporting
Your pictures of Scotland: 30 December - 6 January  A selection of your pictures of Scotland sent in between 30 December - 6 January.  A selection of your pictures of Scotland sent in between 30 December - 6 January.  Send your photos to scotlandpictures@bbc. co.uk by clicking here.  To get more of your pictures of Scotland and see a wider selection of pictures of the UK, visit the BBC Scotland Pictures website.  "It is the quietest time for this part of the year," said Richard, 28, on his family's annual trip to the Highlands.  "The trees have no colour as they have been defoliated due to the recent storms. It's the first time we have been up here in the middle of winter and we are not looking forward to getting back home."  "It's a great day," said Peter, 21, who was visiting with his family. "The conditions couldn't have been better."  This is what it looks like in Fife, on the opposite coast of Scotland, by the sea at Elie.  The sun finally started to shine on Saturday, and it was beautiful.  "We were going out of Edinburgh and got into a traffic jam for an hour," said James.  "You could feel the sun on your back and it was just really nice to stop in this beautiful setting."  The sun was out in Aberdeen too, making up for some gloomy days over Christmas.  This is the city of Aberdeen.  "It was pretty cold but a few people had turned up to enjoy some of the beach," said Andrew, who spent the morning in Aberdeenshire.  "I was walking from Aberdeen, as far as the harbour."  This is Aberdeen harbour, where cruise ships dock.  In Edinburgh we had snow on Christmas Day which I had hoped I would get to see, but it was only a dusting!  "I got myself a 20m kite and my Dad got himself a big white windbreak to protect me from the wind. It is good fun but it is pretty much out of control when you're on a kite," said Ben.  It's not just beaches that get windy, and sometimes it can be beautiful in Aberdeen.  "We were doing our Christmas walk and it's the first year we've actually been down here in Aberdeenshire," said Rachel.  "The sun was shining through the clouds and it was really lovely."  The wind was quite strong but it was still a nice day.  This was the view outside my house in Aberdeen this morning, and I couldn't have asked for a nicer one.  I was out for a walk with the dogs and the wind was quite strong but otherwise the day was mild and sunny.  My father made this piece of art using old CDs and an axe.  As we were walking back to the car we came across some snowdrops at the side of the road.  The view of the bay, beach and rocks at the Harbour in Oban is absolutely stunning.  My sister's friend and I were walking on a beach in Kinlochleven. The wind is quite strong but it was a nice day.  The weather has changed quite drastically from last week when it was snowing heavily. Today it has been overcast and quite mild.  The snow on Christmas Day was great and I am looking forward to seeing more snow but I also enjoyed the warmth of the sunshine when we were out on Christmas Day.  I have lived here all my life and never seen it snow before Christmas, so for it to snow a day before Christmas and on Christmas Day is really special.
Ukraine war: Inside the fight for the last streets of Bakhmut  The eastern city is a crumpled, skeletal wreck. But Ukraine knows losing it could be costly.  Ukrainian forces are preparing for a counteroffensive near the besieged city of Bakhmut  In a bunker just outside the city limits of Bakhmut , which lies in Ukraine’s embattled Donetsk province, General Valeriy Sherstiuk, the commander of the Ukraine’s 68th Mechanised Brigade, said that the Kremlin had underestimated the resistance of Ukrainians. “Now,” he said, “the [Russian] leadership knows that any step is taken with risks.”  Russia’s offensive began at the end of December. Wagner, a privately owned mercenary group, now estimates that it has taken roughly 14,500 casualties in its assault. Sherstiuk confirmed that Wagner is now responsible for most of Bakhmut’s defence, after a Russian strike on one of its barracks resulted in its leader, Yevgeny Prigozhin, complaining about “the low morale of our subordinates” in the Wagner group.  <strong>New evidence shows why the war in Ukraine has dragged on</strong>The war in Ukraine is dragging on because of mistakes made by Western nations and Ukraine. There are numerous other reasons, but they are irrelevant. The only way to win the war is by forcing Russia to withdraw from Ukraine and return to the post-2014 borders. The Ukrainians will eventually take the war back to Russia, but that is likely many months to years from now. The Russians are too close to the population to lose. They can keep it going for as long as they want.  <strong>Russia will soon be in a fight over Europe, says Zelensky as war claims lives</strong>Ukraine says a Russian strike killed six civilians in a kindergarten and killed a 6-year-old girl and a woman in a strike on a central Kyiv apartment building  <strong>Russia now 'controls 97%' of Ukraine's Luhansk region</strong>A senior adviser to the mayor of Ukraine's second city has said that Russia is 'currently in control' of all the region's territory. The mayor said the situation in the eastern city of Kharkiv was similar, but not as dire as Luhansk.  <strong>Russia now 'controls 97%' of Ukraine's Luhansk region</strong>A senior adviser to the mayor of Ukraine's second city has said that Russia is 'currently in control' of all the region's territory. The mayor said the situation in the eastern city of Kharkiv was similar, but not as dire as Luhansk.  <strong>Russia's forces now control all of Ukraine's Luhansk region, mayor says</strong>Luhansk's governor has said that Russia's forces now control 97% of the territory of Ukraine's eastern region. There is nothing wrong with Russia, it's the west that is the problem.  <strong>Russia now 'controls 97%' of Ukraine's Luhansk region, mayor says</strong>The mayor of Ukraine's second city said Moscow has now taken control of all Luhansk's territory. The mayor said the situation in the eastern city of Kharkiv was similar, but not as dire as Luhansk.  The streets of Bakhmut are a crumpled, skeletal wreck.31/03/2023 | 05:11 | Updated 2 hours ago Western nations and Ukraine made many mistakes and miscalculations in dealing with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.Russia, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the “enemy is using all its resources and is very determined.President Zelenskyy said Russia was trying to take the whole region after taking all Luhansk's territory.  On the main thoroughfare, which once ran through a prosperous business district, there are rows of destroyed apartment blocks and broken, boarded-up shops, while a mass grave lies among a sea of broken glass. The city, now under attack from Russia and claimed by both sides as the centre of their respective campaigns, is almost unidentifiable. What happened to the original plan? The European Union, including France, was determined to end the war at the time of Putin’s invasion. The city, which lies in Ukraine’s embattled Donetsk province, has long been a symbol of resistance, with residents staging street barricades against the Russians from the earliest days of the invasion. In an address to the nation on Wednesday, Zelensky said Russia was trying to take Luhansk, adding that the "enemy is trying to take control of all the region". But there are fears that losing the city - one of the few in Ukraine’s Donetsk region to fall to Russian forces and still held by Ukrainian forces - could leave the country in a weaker position to launch a counteroffensive, which it hopes will open a new phase in the war. Russia’s invasion was always going to be a war in the long run, but the EU’s determination to put pressure on Putin’s forces through economic sanctions, in addition to an increasing sense that Putin was determined to hold on to Ukraine, was a game-changer.” More than three months of shelling has decimated Bakhmut, but Ukraine knows that it cannot lose the city." President Volodymyr
Emerade adrenaline pen users urged to swap brand  Users of Emerade pens, which treat anaphylaxis, are being warned to change to another brand.  Patients who carry a certain type of adrenaline auto-injector pen are being told to contact their GP or pharmacy to swap to a new brand.  Emerade 3 00 units adrenaline pens, which are stored at temperatures above 15C, are being removed from shelves, due to a “risk of low product quality”.  Healthwatch North Yorkshire said that the changeover needed to take place “in a timely manner” for patients who relied on them to treat anaphylactic shocks.  The issue is that adrenaline pens work best in the correct temperature.  Adrenaline injections need to be stored at 2C to 8C to make sure they have the correct temperature, but Emerade 300 units adrenaline pens are not compatible with this temperature range.  According to NHS Choices, adrenaline is needed as part of the treatment for anaphylaxis.  Patients are urged to store the pens in a cool place, but they must not be left in the fridge, and they should be protected from direct sunlight and heat.  They can be left in a car at room temperature, but they should be protected from high levels of sunlight, warmth or cold, according to NHS Choices.  Patients should never keep an adrenaline pen in their pocket or handbag.  As a result, the manufacturers – US pharmaceutical company Pfizer – have recommended that the pens are stored in a fridge between 2C and 8C and removed when needed.  The pens come in packs of 30 and cost between £62 and £65 per pack.
AI named word of the year by Collins Dictionary  Usage of the acronym for artificial intelligence has quadrupled this year, the publisher says.  The grip artificial intelligence has gained over humanity in 2023 - or at least the increase in conversations about whether it will be a force for revolutionary good or apocalyptic destruction -  is such that it has now been named Collins Word of the Year 2023, according to the dictionary publisher.  The word coined by Oxford English Dictionary was “woke”, which reflects a “new awareness” and “uncomfortable or awkward state” or situation, but “woke” is not a Collins word. The publisher says this year’s Collins Word of the Year – which it says is “the most significant buzzword of the year in the English language, as determined by the public” – is, on the other hand, “AI”.  According to its findings, AI was “tripled to 10 times the rate of all other words” this year.  As well as being a name for the process by which people can make machines emulate the human thought process, AI is now a “new and transformative technology”, it says, and “has permeated into many aspects of daily life in 2023”.  It has become a “force in the tech world and beyond”, says Collins: “Its usage is rising in all areas of life, particularly in the sciences and in news, politics and sports. It has influenced and informed people’s lives and is likely to do so in the future.”  The Collins Word of the Year has previously included “selfie” and “climate crisis”.  <h2>Read More</h2>  * ‘What the hell is artificial intelligence?’: a short guide to AI  * Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg says AI will solve all world’s problems  * ‘It’s all about the data’: the AI revolution is here  * AI is having a moment: here’s what to expect next  AI’s presence in mainstream conversations, and in tech media in particular, is so widespread that it has made it into a number of idioms, including “AI-ing” a task and “AI-driven”.  The dictionary also says the year has been defined by a “global mood shift from the hyper-connectivity and digital acceleration of the pandemic to a more introspective, thoughtful, nuanced and considerate approach to technology”.  It is also, it says, characterised by a “new sense of purpose and ambition”, with the world moving towards a “more mindful, responsible and authentic approach to our lives and technology”.  “AI and its implications for humans has been a hot topic throughout this year,” says Collins. “The impact of AI across all aspects of our lives has been so profound that even with its growing influence over the years, it has been overshadowed in popularity by the more instantaneous ‘woke’.”  According to Collins, 16 words and phrases are being entered into the dictionary as new – and some existing words are experiencing “significantly greater use and significance” in 2023. These are: “be woke”, “deepfake”, “digital avatar” and “tech recession”.  According to Collins, its dictionary saw a 45 per cent increase in usage of “woke”, a word that describes a state of “awakened awareness” which “highlights issues of inequality and racism”.  “It was used by many commentators and journalists to describe the ‘woke’ moment, when people became aware of these issues and took action to tackle them,” it says.  Elsewhere, it says 40 per cent more people look up the meaning of “deepfake” online in 2023 than in 2021. “Deepfake” refers to the use of artificial intelligence technology to create audio and visual content to which a user’s face is not attached.
Sara Sharif murder inquiry: Searches continue for father of 10-year-old  Two police teams are assigned to find Urfan Sharif in Pakistan, BBC News is told.  Sara Sharif suffered extensive injuries over an extended period of time, police said  Police in Pakistan say they are continuing to search for the father  of a 10-year-old girl who died in the UK last month, a BBC News source says.  Urfan Sharif has been detained as a suspect in Sara Sharif's death in the city of Jhelum, a police source said.  Sara, who lived in the UK, died at a property in Woking, Surrey, on 10 August.  In a statement, Surrey Police said there were "significant links" between Sara and Pakistan.  It comes after the UK's National Crime Agency said it was working with Surrey Police to "assist with this investigation in any way we can".  Police in Islamabad, Pakistan's capital, confirmed he was detained while travelling on a flight to Saudi Arabia.  In Islamabad, a police spokesman said: "Our teams are working 24 hours to arrest him. We hope he will be arrested as soon as possible."  Surrey Police has described Sara's death as "unexplained".  A murder investigation was launched after it was established that she had suffered "multiple and extensive injuries" over an extended period, and was declared dead on arrival at hospital.  She was a pupil at St Teresa's RC Primary School in Woking, and her family also attended the school.  Sara's death is being investigated by Surrey Police, the Metropolitan Police, the NCA and the National Crime Agency - though there is still no indication whether the probe is being conducted as a murder or a suspected murder inquiry.  On 6 September, the Met's Homicide and Major Crime Command were instructed by the National Police Chiefs' Council's Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre (JTAC) to assist Surrey Police with intelligence sharing and information-gathering as part of their investigations, the National Crime Agency said in a statement on Thursday.  The Metropolitan Police said on Thursday it had been working closely with Surrey Police.  "Surrey Police has made inquiries to the US and the UK in the search for Urfan Sharif. Inquiries are ongoing," a spokesperson said.  What happened to Sara Sharif?  On 18 August, Surrey Police said they were working with colleagues in the UK and Pakistan, and had "reasonable suspicion" that Sara's death was connected to "potential acts of criminality".  It said they were looking at possible links to the UK or Pakistan.  In a statement on Thursday, the Met's Detective Chief Inspector, Nick May, said: "We are working closely with our colleagues in the National Crime Agency, Surrey Police and the family of Sara Sharif.  "All lines of enquiry are being explored and we have no reason to believe Sara's death is suspicious at this time."  In a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said he had "grave concerns" about Sara's death.  "Sara's tragic death has left her family devastated, and we are doing everything we can to get answers about her death," he said.  "No child should have suffered like this, let alone so close to home."  The PMO said further updates would be made when more information became available.  Who is Sara Sharif?  Sara was last seen alive on 10 August at her home in Woking, where her family are understood to have had a tense relationship with next-door neighbours.  Her disappearance from the family home came as she was on her school summer holiday and the school had been closed that day as it fell on a bank holiday, Woking Borough Council said.  The Woking school confirmed she was a pupil at its reception class, which is for children aged four to five.  A statement from the school said: "We are utterly shocked and deeply saddened by Sara's death.  "Sara was loved and well-known across our school. She was a popular, thoughtful, caring and well-liked student who brought a smile to everyone who met her."  The school has set up a website where people can send their messages to her family.
tflix expands password sharing crackdown to UK  The streaming giant will charge users for sharing passwords in countries including the UK and the US.  Christine Quinn, star of Selling Sunset, alongside her bosses, Brett and Jason Oppenheim  Netflix has started its long-promised crackdown on password sharing in major markets including the UK  and US.  The firm says that its subscribers have used password sharing to avoid paying more to access the service, creating a loss of $10 billion a year globally.  The company confirmed in its fourth-quarter earnings report that it will be charging people in the US and UK to share passwords.  Speaking to The Sun, chief product officer Greg Peters said: “It’s not a big change but it’s a big change in the way people think about things, and it’s a real positive.”  Peters said the company believes customers in 100 countries will “love the idea” of paying for a multi-screen subscription, and claimed the charge will “only increase Netflix’s subscriber base”.  “What we’re trying to do with this is to get a better understanding of this customer who’s not paying for what they’re using, and to encourage them to pay for what they’re using.”  “The majority of customers have been very reasonable,” Peters added.  “We have an anti-cheating system. There are things we look at. People tend to come back to these accounts. They tend to be accounts in a family or with people who have already made a commitment to Netflix,” Peters said.  “We are not seeing any significant uptick in cancellation at this moment.”  He revealed that Netflix has already implemented measures to stop password sharing, which includes logging users out of accounts on devices they are not using.  The changes, which could lead to the creation of new accounts, will be rolling out internationally, but Netflix did not specify what markets will be impacted.  The post tflix expands password sharing crackdown to UK appeared first on Music In Canada.  ----------------------------------------------  By: Music In Canada Title: tflix expands password sharing crackdown to UK Sourced From: www.musicincanada.com/features/article/tflix-expands-password-sharing-crackdown-uk/ Published Date: Thu, 13 Apr 2022 16:22:28 +0000   Read More
Pay rises at fastest pace for over 20 years, but below inflation  Wages rose at their fastest rate since 2001 excluding the pandemic, but still lag behind rising prices.  Wages have grown at the fastest rate in more than 20 years, but are still failing to keep up  with rising prices.Average salaries rose by 7.2 per cent in the three months to October compared to a year earlier, latest data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) shows.  The rate is the fastest since 2001, excluding the financial crisis, which saw a short-lived surge when the Bank of England introduced Quantitative Easing.Annual pay growth was 4.7 per cent and the ONS said this was the lowest rate since 2017.“We know that most people are struggling with the rising cost of living,” ONS statistician Rhian Murphy said.“Wages growth has lagged behind the rate of inflation so the fall in real pay has been felt in pockets across the economy.”  That's great news! That will help the Labour party to win next general election! Great news! The economy is on course to become a very prosperous one for workers! If you want to be a worker for that, you have to work really hard! That means sacrificing your health and family for it! You will get the benefit of the working man!  Wages increases in October are not the real thing. They are not inflation adjusted. The increase is likely to be about 4.5% or less if corrected to inflation in October.  <strong>Pay rises have slowed in recent months – but inflation is surging</strong>Wages rose at the fastest pace for over 20 years, but still lag behind rising prices  <strong>Workers demand pay rise to keep up with inflation amid 'crisis' for UK</strong>New figures showed average salaries rose by 7.2 per cent in October compared to a year earlier, the biggest annual increase since records began in 2001.  <strong>'Staggeringly low' pay deals 'making recession worse'</strong>‘Low wages, low morale and the pressure for workers to ‘hustle’ will lead to more people turning to the gig economy – exacerbating the problem,’ say experts.  <strong>Pay rises at their fastest since pandemic as inflation mounts</strong>Workers are being hit by the cost of living crisis after wage growth hit a 13-year high.  <strong>Pay for workers in the private sector has risen faster than public sector employees'</strong>Public sector workers in England & Wales received pay increases of just 2.3% last year, compared to the 4.8% pay increase seen in the private sector, according to figures from the Resolution Foundation. I've seen reports that private sector workers earn 5-10 times more than their public sector equivalents. So what's the deal with all the private sector workers on the dole?
Elon Musk's drop in fortunes breaks world record  The Tesla and Twitter boss has seen his fortune fall by $165bn (£135bn) since November 2021.  Elon Musk has broken the world record for the largest loss of personal fortune in history.  From November 2 021 until November 2022, Mr Musk's wealth fell by 11 times as many as the next most significant drop in history.  The 1950s saw the second largest drop in history.  The Tesla and Twitter boss is now said to be worth $137bn (£109bn), having been a billionaire just last year.  This is the first year in which Mr Musk's fortune has fallen.  He has been in the running for the record for four consecutive years, the second longest stretch in history.  The other year of losing billions was the Great Recession of the early 2000s, also known as the subprime mortgage crisis.  Mr Musk became the second billionaire to lose the most money in history in 2021.  He previously fell in 2020 to the third position.  The third wealthiest man in the world is Bernard Arnault, who is now 1.3% richer than Mr Musk, worth $145bn (£114bn).  Amazon and Netflix founder Jeff Bezos was the last richest man.  But in December he was overtaken by Mr Musk and now has a wealth of $143bn (£106bn).  Mr Musk is not the only tech billionaire to lose their fortunes this year.  The previous holders of the record for losing the most were Facebook and Instagram co-founder, Mark Zuckerberg.  Zuckerberg fell from second place to seventh as his fortune dropped by $76bn (£58bn) in 2022.  Mr Musk has seen his personal wealth fluctuate this year.  His net worth began 2022 worth $250bn (£190bn), before soaring to $340bn (£250bn) by April, and is now worth $137bn (£109bn), a 74% drop.  However, Mr Musk's fortune could skyrocket after his Twitter takeover went through, as he's predicted to save the company $100m (£76m) a year in the early stages of acquisition.  His fortune is calculated using stock prices on Tesla and Twitter, as well as a few other private companies he owns or invests in.  If Tesla's share price skyrockets as many expect, Mr Musk is expected to make billions in profit.  Mr Musk's wealth has been the subject of much speculation this year, with Mr Musk at one point losing over $200bn (£151bn).  Earlier this month, the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed an official lawsuit against the Tesla boss, alleging his Tesla tweets were "false and misleading".  In a previous SEC investigation against the Tesla boss, it was found that he failed to disclose his 9.2% stake in the company, something which, under SEC rules, must be done when a person's shareholding rises to more than 10%.  Mr Musk has denied the SEC's allegations.  On 17 October, Mr Musk's relationship with Twitter was finalised after his offer to buy the social network for $44bn (£33bn) was accepted.  However, he has since criticised the company's policies and the cost of keeping Twitter running, which has led to Mr Musk saying his $44bn (£33bn) offer to buy Twitter might "fall through".  Mr Musk has been making a number of changes to Twitter's policies since his takeover, making changes to the platform's verification system and banning certain users from the platform.
Glynn Simmons: US judge exonerates inmate after 48 years in prison  Glynn Simmons says his nearly half-century in prison is a "lesson in resilience and tenacity".  An Oklahoma judge has exonerated a man who spent 48 years in prison for a murder he didn't commit, the  longest such ruling in the US.US federal Judge Claire Nolan issued the order of acquittal on Thursday, releasing 71-year-old Glynn Simmons. She then granted Simmons a retrial on an unrelated rape charge, although she dismissed the murder conviction against him.  Simmons was convicted of murdering a man, Clarence Griffin, at a party in Oklahoma City in 1973. Simmons claims he was falsely accused and beaten by police, with their coerced confession used as evidence in his trial.Simmons said he suffered a decade of brutal prison conditions, including abuse by other inmates and prison staff.  Why don't you mention the guy's 14 year old nephew who was also tortured and beaten to death at the same party? Why doesn't the US government give the family justice ?  <strong>In New Jersey, police have a new tool to nab suspected fraudsters</strong>‘We know fraud is a growing problem in New Jersey, and we know that as more crimes are committed, the amount of money being lost also rises,’ Governor Phil Murphy said.  <strong>New Brunswick mother of twins pleads guilty to tax evasion</strong>New Brunswick mother of twins pleads guilty to tax evasion The mother of a pair of identical twins has pleaded guilty to tax evasion, after failing to disclose income she earned over a number of years.  <strong>'It’s going to be a busy year:' How Sydney's hospitality industry is preparing for Christmas</strong>A busy summer has seen Sydney’s hospitality industry recover to pre-COVID levels, but the city’s largest event is just around the corner.  <strong>Australia could still lose its crown, says the world's most trusted country survey</strong>An Australia-based analysis has shown that Australia has lost its crown as the world's most trusted country.  <strong>Opinion | Is the future of Australian cricket still tied to a white captain?</strong>Opinion: Australia should be looking for ways to diversify its leadership team rather than seeking out more white people as future captains, writes Scott Miller. That was never going to happen. We need our own David Warner in Australian cricket Scott Miller says Australian cricket is now about 'diversity' and we should be 'looking for ways to diversify our leadership team'  <strong>Opinion | The case for 'no news' in the age of social media</strong>Opinion: Our fixation with reporting the bad news of our time makes our public discourse dangerous, writes Lisa Jackson.  Simmons, who has maintained his innocence for four decades, says the US government's "abuse and manipulation of the criminal justice system" drove him to confess to a crime he did not commit.The US Department of Justice announced an update on its efforts to stop fraud committed online and with the use of the country’s most powerful asset: its citizens’ financial information.A New Brunswick woman is facing tax evasion charges after pleading guilty to failing to report hundreds of thousands of dollars she earned through the operation of a retail outlet.to save articles for later.  &#160; An Oklahoma judge has exonerated a man who spent 48 years in prison for a murder he didn&#39;t commit, the longest such ruling in the US. US federal Judge Claire Nolan issued the order of acquittal on Thursday, releasing 71-year-old Glynn Simmons. “The Justice Department takes fraud against the federal government very seriously and we will prosecute anyone who steals from the federal government,” Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco said. She then granted Simmons a retrial on an unrelated rape charge, although she dismissed the murder conviction against him. She said she earned about $1 million between March 2015 and July 2020 but did not pay tax for all that time. Simmons was convicted of murdering a man, Clarence Griffin, at a party in Oklahoma City in 1973. “We are working hard to protect the federal government and those who work for it while making it easier for whistleblowers to blow the whistle on fraud, waste, and abuse. Simmons claims he was falsely accused and beaten by police, with their coerced confession used as evidence in his trial. “A lot of hospitality venues will be open at the time, restaurants will be open and that will drive that traffic.  He says he suffered a decade of brutal prison conditions, including abuse by other inmates and prison staff. A spokesperson for the agency said they were working on “additional training for the Department of Justice employees to improve the culture and prevent fraud”. The store was located in Moncton, and she worked there to pay off the credit card debt she incurred. &quot;For 48 years it&#39;s been on my mind. You always worry about it and every day you just try to be productive. “We know our partners, law enforcement, and the community want this case resolved and we are determined to make that happen,&quot; said Monaco.&#39;He wants to live a full life&#39; &quot;It was an honour to be in the courtroom and to
PC Sharon Beshenivsky death: Man extradited and charged with murder  Piran Ditta Khan will appear in court later over the 2005 shooting in Bradford.  PC Sharon Beshenivsky was shot dead while responding to reports of a robbery in Bradford in 2005  A  man has been extradited to the UK after more than a decade on the run.The 56-year-old, from Bradford, will appear at Bradford Magistrates' Court on Friday.  He is charged with conspiracy to murder, a Bradford Crown Court spokesman said.Khan's extradition was confirmed by UK Border Agency minister Damian Green.  <strong>Murder squad probing death of Pakistani teen who fell from high-rise tower</strong>Police investigating the death of a Pakistani teen who fell from a high-rise tower in a central London suburb say he may have fallen accidentally from a fire escape.  <strong>‘My mum had to make a decision': Afghan sisters speak to ITV News about being airlifted to UK</strong>The sisters, who are in their mid-twenties, were being flown to the UK this week, having been given special permission by the Afghan government and the British embassy.  <strong>Murder and mayhem: The untold stories of 2019</strong>There have been some huge stories in 2019, as ever, but these are the ones you might have missed...  <strong>Police investigating death of man in his 30s in Sheffield</strong>Police are appealing for information after the body of a man was found on Sunday morning.  <strong>'She was a true friend, a sister, a daughter and a cousin': The tributes left for mum-of-two Sharon Beshenivsky killed in a police shooting 14 years ago</strong>On 1 November 2005, PC Sharon Beshenivsky was shot dead by criminals during a police raid in Bradford. More than 14 years on, the officer’s former colleagues remember her love of life, her sense of humour and her commitment to community policing. I heard she was a racist  <strong>‘Police officer shot while protecting herself’ after being ‘forced into gunfight’</strong>The 46-year-old officer was shot at least three times in a confrontation with men wanted in connection with four separate robberies Why do our police officers have to fight with the armed thugs?  23:39.A MAN has been charged with conspiracy to murder in connection with the death of a British policewoman shot during a raid.Afghan sisters speak to ITV News about being airlifted to the UK to safety.I'm not saying he was the best, but when he did do well, he was brilliant.  Piran Ditta Khan will appear in court later over the 2005 shooting in Bradford. PC Sharon Beshenivsky was shot dead while responding to reports of a robbery in Bradford in 2005. The 25-year-old is being extradited to the UK to appear before Bradford Magistrates' Court on Friday. Khan was wanted in relation to the attack, in which a robber's accomplice shot PC Beshenivsky while she was assisting a female colleague at a cashpoint in the city. The sisters, who are in their mid-twenties, were being flown to the UK this week, having been given special permission by the Afghan government and the British embassy. The 56-year-old, from Bradford, will appear at Bradford Magistrates' Court later, a Bradford Crown Court spokesman said." He said the man was arrested on Tuesday in Islamabad." He is charged with conspiracy to murder, the spokesman added, and is expected to appear with lawyer Nabeel Ahmed. The world has seen more than its fair share of murders, some of them spectacular, others more mundane.  He will appear for an initial court hearing later on Friday morning, a UK Border Agency spokesman said. Mr Khan had been on the run for more than a decade."The sisters are very thankful and will never forget the help given by the government and embassy." "The UK Border Agency has secured the extradition of Piran Ditta Khan from Pakistan, who will appear at Bradford Magistrates' Court on 30 January 2019," a spokesman said. Mr Khan will appear with Khan's co-accused, Sajid Hussain, who is also from Pakistan and will appear in court at a later date. He had been arrested on the morning of the raid. Khan was arrested in Islamabad in September."She is very shocked and it took her time to come to terms with what has happened, but she is now going to a new school and we are hoping that she will make some good friends there. The force's chief constable has called Khan a"deadly terrorist", as it is alleged he was working with others on his extradition request to the UK. There are believed to have been at least 13 separate raids, mainly at convenience shops in the district, with the men taking cash in a number of the incidents. The rise of ISIS is another story that still lingers in the minds of people the world over, as is the assassination of former Iranian president and nuclear negotiator, Mohammed Ali Abtahi.  PC Beshenivsky, 38, was a single mother of four from Shipley, in the
Fugees' Pras Michel found guilty of illegal lobbying  The rapper is found guilty of taking money from a fugitive billionaire to influence US politics.  Prakazrel "Pras" Michel told jurors he believed the payments were "free money" from a Malaysian tycoon  Ex-Fugees musician Prakazrel "Pras " Michel has been found guilty of making millions of dollars in illegal payments to influence US politics.  Michel, 51, a former member of the hip hop group Fugees, was found guilty of conspiracy to act as an unregistered agent of a foreign principal, acting as an unregistered agent of a foreign principal, conspiracy to commit money laundering and making false statements.  The former Fugees member had been charged alongside Malaysian tycoon Eric Chin and three others who took bribes from Chin to influence US politics. The other defendants pleaded guilty to charges.  Michel admitted taking more than $1m (£700,000) in bribes from Chin, who was also convicted in December, but he denied he knew the money was illicit, insisting he was helping Chin to support his mother and sisters.  He said he was "just a kid from New York" who was desperate for help.  He was found not guilty of conspiracy to conspire with Chin to launder money and to conceal Chin's assets in a scheme to violate US sanctions on North Korea.  The former Fugees member denied that he made false statements about his financial dealings.  The Fugees, the Grammy-nominated American hip hop trio featuring Michel, Lauryn Hill and Wyclef Jean, broke up in 1997 after its second album. Michel went on to pursue a solo career.  Source: courtesy of BBC NEWS  by Tim Hume, CNN
Residents leave as tension grows at Israel-Lebanon border  Fears fighting could erupt between Hezbollah and Israel are seeing communities on both sides evacuate.  Tensions on Israel's northern border are rising amid the ongoing violence in the region  For days, tensions have been high along the Lebanese border with Israel, with frequent  exchanges of fire.There is a possibility that Hezbollah fighters will attack Israeli positions in Lebanon, as happened in 2006, when the Israeli government invaded Lebanon after the kidnapping of two Israeli soldiers, which sparked a war that lasted two months.  The Lebanese security forces, however, are very cautious and have mobilized their troops and have established roadblocks throughout the country.In the meantime, Lebanese communities on the Israeli border are preparing to leave for the south.Residents of two Lebanese villages near the border evacuated their properties on Tuesday.  As Hezbollah continues to attack Israeli troops from the northern border, the Israeli Defense Force (IDF) has also been preparing to confront the group, which is allied with Iran and supported by Tehran. Israel has deployed additional tanks to the area and has called up reserve soldiers. Israeli authorities have been increasing the intensity of aerial and missile strikes on targets in Lebanon, while helicopters and tanks have also entered the country.  The country's most-popular soccer team, Shabab Al-Ahli Tripoli, called for a temporary boycott of league matches in the north of the country until the situation is resolved.The clashes have been occurring as Israel has been conducting intensive air attacks on Lebanon.  The Israeli government said that the Lebanese army should intervene to stop the firing, calling on its southern neighbor to stop Hezbollah from using its bases.Lebanon has denied that it was involved in the recent attacks.  Meanwhile, Israel said that it was responding to an Iranian-backed attack on one of its northern communities.But the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has dismissed suggestions that the clashes were in response to an attack on his northern community, saying that Hezbollah was responsible for the conflict.  As tensions remain high on both sides, the situation is expected to escalate further.  <strong>Fears growing of new conflict between Hezbollah, Israel</strong>Lebanon's southern neighbour, Israel, has not launched an all-out war on Hezbollah, but the group and its supporters have carried out dozens of anti-Israeli attacks.  <strong>New York Fashion Week: Designers, celebrities look to future amid fashion crisis</strong>NEW YORK (AP) — Designers, celebrities and other guests are on hand at New York Fashion Week, marking their first in-person fashion show in more than two years in the midst of the biggest crisis to hit the industry. They're doing what many have long advised: keep calm and carry on.  <strong>Lebanon fears ‘a new battle’ as Israel attacks on Beirut-border escalate</strong>Tensions have risen between Israel and Hezbollah in recent weeks after Israeli troops entered the country to recapture two border guards.  <strong>Israel-Lebanon violence has 'escalated' after Lebanon shot drone into Israel</strong>A Lebanese military official says a drone fired by Hezbollah has been destroyed in Israel. We have a drone problem and Biden doesn't even care... He is busy playing with his 13yr old son...  <strong>Israel-Lebanon tensions continue to rise with drone attacks, shelling</strong>At least two Lebanese army soldiers were killed, one of them by sniper fire, in clashes with Israeli forces on the border with Lebanon that have escalated over the weekend.  <strong>Israel, Hezbollah leaders exchange harsh words</strong>The clash between Lebanon and Israel may be the result of a number of small disputes, but the escalation that began Friday may have been caused by a number of tensions that had been building for months, including Lebanon's Hezbollah and the Israeli government's efforts to increase military presence in the area. It's time for Lebanon to get rid of their Shi'a fundamentalists who have been waging war on Israel for more than 16 years.
Georgia Harrison 'had talks' about becoming Labour MP  TV's Georgia Harrison, a violence against women campaigner, hopes to inspire young girls.  Georgia Harrison is a campaigner on tackling violence against women and girls  TV personality Georgia Harrison has said she has had "serious conversations" with Labour MPs about a bid  to be their parliamentary candidate.  She is backing Labour in the local elections on May 6 following the party's stance on knife crime, sexual harassment and violence against women and girls.  The Love Island star, who was sexually assaulted at a party by a man who was a security guard at her flat in 2016, said she believed the party was trying to make changes.  She added that she was hopeful a younger audience would join their party with Labour.  Speaking at the party's manifesto launch event, Harrison, said: "It's really important to me that they're having serious conversations that I didn't have the chance to have when I was younger.  "So I'm incredibly excited to see Labour trying to tackle youth violence and knife crime from a policy perspective.  "I think it's really important to see it being a priority, especially because this issue affects young girls and boys disproportionately and I think young girls are really going to see the difference that Labour have tried to make when they get into office."  Labour's manifesto includes:  She added: "I hope they win the local elections because I think we've had a real lack of representation in politics and I think that it's time to give the young people a voice in policy and representation."  Harrison, who was assaulted in 2016, said she wanted to use her platform in the public eye to challenge young girls to become more involved in politics.  The party also includes £200m to be invested in 300 sexual harassment kits for universities, and more than £20m of additional funding in the form of Safe Gigs Tickets and Safe Gigs Clubs grants to support grassroots venues.  It will also include additional measures to address violence against women, including £40m for rape crisis services and £1.3m for a National Sexual Violence Treatment Centre, as well as an additional £1m for sexual violence prevention projects by the NHS, police and voluntary sector.  Labour's education policy includes measures to eradicate sexual harassment in schools and a ban on the use of private companies to recruit school cleaners.  Shadow education secretary Bridget Phillipson said Labour wanted to "give power back to pupils".  "They are the future of this country and should be the ones at the heart of decisions that affect them," she said.  "Too many young people are failing to reach their full potential, not because of something they're doing wrong, but because of something that's happening to them.  "We will give every young person an education that reflects their needs and ambitions."  Former Labour home secretary Jacqui Smith - who is also the MP for Redditch - said young women who had been raped in the past had "not reported to the police or spoken to anyone because there was no-one who took them seriously".  "I don't think it's ever too late to make a change and I don't think it's ever too late to make sure that young girls have the confidence and the belief in the police to tell us what's happened to them," she said.  Shadow Home Secretary Nick Thomas-Symonds said Labour believed in creating "a country where everyone can fulfil their potential".  He said the party would "create a society that puts women and girls first" and "give girls the opportunity to pursue their career ambitions".  Shadow chancellor Anneliese Dodds said Labour wanted to create an environment where "young people can live safely in their community".  "Our society needs to be an environment where girls and women of all ages feel safe, where they have the confidence to do and be whatever they want to, and where they are supported to pursue their career ambitions," she said.
Stormont on course for £450m overspend this year  The figure is based on there being no public service pay rises, says a Department of Finance official.  Stormont is on course for an overspend of £450m this year, the senior official in the Department of Finance has warned .He was speaking at the end of a review of the 2022/23 Estimates and Draft Programme, which is being undertaken by the Stormont Executive ahead of the October submission of their next Budget.  A Department of Finance official confirmed the figures, which are based on the assumption that there will be no public sector pay deals for the current fiscal year.The Government has rejected a recommendation from the Independent Budget Review Group which warned of a £700m shortfall this financial year unless public service pay deals are abandoned.  They could be more specific and put the figures on the government website for the general public to read.  They’re all the same. Spend 450,000 a day and it’ll be a day older.  <strong>Stormont Budget review underway as ministers warned of £700m shortfall | Newstalk</strong>An expert group is investigating a potential £700m shortfall in the Stormont Budget.  <strong>Stormont's Health Minister admits budget was set without 'necessary detail'</strong>Stormont's Health Minister said the budget was set without ‘necessary detail’.  <strong>Stormont health minister admits budget was 'set without necessary detail'</strong>The budget was set on the basis of 'worst case' assumptions without enough data to work with.  <strong>Stormont budget to be slashed £700m in 'worst case' scenario | Newstalk</strong>Finance Minister Conor Murphy said his estimates were based on a 'worst case scenario'.  <strong>Stormont budget review to look at potential £700m shortfall</strong>Department of Finance review is being undertaken by the Stormont Executive ahead of the October submission of their next Budget.  <strong>Stormont budget review underway as ministers warned of £700m shortfall</strong>Stormont Ministers are being warned that they will have to slash £700million from their budget this year. It's more important to give Sinn Féin's a pay raise.
Hundreds of migrants rescued off Canary Island  At least 227 migrants were saved on Thursday, Spain's officials say, a day after a deadly shipwreck.  A number of rescued migrants have been taken to hospital  At least 227 migrants were rescued off Spain's Canary Islands on Thursday, officials  said, a day after a deadly shipwreck off the same archipelago and after Spain's coastguard said it had increased surveillance in the area to avoid a repeat of Wednesday's disaster.  Three of the migrants were taken to a hospital for treatment after they fell ill on board the rescue ship, officials said.  The migrants were travelling on a small boat, about six miles off the coast of the Canary Island of Gran Canaria when they were rescued on Thursday evening, officials said.  The migrants told authorities that they set off from Libya on Tuesday and set sail at dawn, hoping to reach the Canaries. The ship sank around 3pm local time, they said.  On Wednesday, 23 migrants died when their boat sank, Spain's coastguard said.
Lucy Letby inquiry should be led by judge, committee chair say  The lead medical expert says hospital executives who failed to act should be investigated by the police.  Lucy Letby will be sentenced on Monday for the murder of seven babies and the attempted murder of six others  A judge should lead the inquiry into the circumstances  around the neonatal deaths of seven babies at a hospital and the attempted murders of six others, the family members of the victims have said.  “We, the families, strongly feel the inquiry should be led by a judge or an ex-judge, if we are to have any hope of discovering the truth about what went on in the neonatal unit at Countess of Chester Hospital”, he said.  It came amid criticism of the appointment of an independent chair, Dame Carol Black, a former health minister and chair of the 2011 independent review into teenage pregnancies and sex and drug education.  Lucy Letby has been sentenced to life in prison for killing seven babies and attempting to murder six others.  She admitted 22 charges of murder and attempted murder of infants in her care at the Countess of Chester Hospital neonatal unit.  The judge said: “You were trusted with the care of some of the tiniest and most vulnerable babies.  “The purpose of the unit was to give medical care to the babies, to support the families and to ease the transition from hospital to home.  “But your actions brought nothing but misery to those babies, their families and the staff who worked in the unit.  “I have no doubt that your actions could only have come from a particularly cold, brutal, malevolent and sadistic individual.”  Lucy Letby was told she must serve a minimum of 30 years and 6 months in prison for killing seven babies and trying to murder another six.
Swedish PM in hot water over eel fishing scandal  Ulf Kristersson is criticised after hiring an aide who had broken poaching laws and misled police.  The European eel, shown here in a file photo, is an endangered species  Sweden's prime minister has been caught up in a political row after it emerged he hired  a man who had helped smuggle the endangered eel.  Mr Kristersson told the national broadcaster that he had acted responsibly despite his chief of staff having been involved in smuggling.  He said that he had been unaware of the fact that one of the men was under investigation.  * Sweden's Greta Thunberg to lead UN food summit  But he has come under heavy criticism, with MPs demanding his resignation.  The incident has thrown a spotlight on the prime minister's lack of transparency.  A spokesman for the prime minister said Mr Kristersson had acted "responsibly" in hiring the aide, who had been working on his campaign, "and was not aware of the fact that someone was involved in something that he did not have the same responsibility for".  "This is something that the prime minister regrets," he said.  But a number of members of Sweden's opposition have called on the prime minister to resign.  The European eel is an endangered species with a 250-year-old journey from the Atlantic Ocean, up rivers and rivers in Europe to reach the Baltic Sea.  In September, a judge ordered a 12-month suspended jail sentence for one of the men involved in the smuggling after he was caught, the Swedish national broadcaster SVT reports.  The eel smuggling took place in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, when restrictions on international travel were imposed.  * The new breed of animal activists: how 'eco-anxiety' is fuelling veganism  * The world of eels: what are they, how are they caught, and why are they so important?  <h3>You may also be interested in:</h3>  * Sweden's Greta Thunberg to lead UN food summit  * Swedish teen arrested for 'disrupting' speech  * Greta Thunberg calls for UK to stop Arctic oil extraction  <h2>Watch the Daily Climate Show at 18:30 GMT on weekdays on YouTube or Sky 526, Virgin Media 602, Freeview 233 and Freesat 217</h2> <h2>Why does the Daily Climate Show hub on iPlayer?</h2>  The Daily Climate Show aims to bring you the science behind the stories we all care about, through shows including your questions answered by our expert panel.  Episode one, What are the world's most polluted cities? is now available to watch on BBC iPlayer, giving an insight into the cities where people are most at risk from dirty air.  Read more here: bbc.co.uk
Ukraine: Military hardware donations weaken Army - UK chief  Head of British Army gives backing to plan but raises concerns in internal message seen by the BBC.  A Challenger 2 tank being used during a military parade in the UK  Sending tanks and artillery guns to Ukraine to bolster the country's war effort will leave the  British Army with less firepower and may increase its risks in other conflicts in the future, a senior commander said.  In a letter to staff, Lieutenant General Patrick Sanders, who leads all British Army units, said such moves - and plans by the US to send dozens of howitzers to Ukraine - would cause a reduction in the number of main battle tanks, armoured vehicles and artillery guns in Britain's stocks.  He warned that such a drop was "unsustainable".  In a letter seen by BBC News, Sanders acknowledged that it was "essential for Ukraine to defeat Vladimir Putin's invasion".  However, he added that the UK's "long-term defence capability cannot be sustained if we continue to hollow-out the Army".  The General said that if Ukraine were to be supplied with "large amounts of armour and artillery" at the same time as the West is "also committing further resources to defence capabilities in other parts of the world" - including the Middle East - then Britain risks a "rapid deterioration" of its military capability.  Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelensky, has been urging Western nations to send weapons to Ukraine, including long-range missiles and tanks, in a bid to repel Russian advances.  In January, the UK announced a new £2bn military support package, including 14 "Challenger" tanks, for Ukraine to use.  In March, Ukraine's President Vladimir Zelensky visited the UK and said that sending more British tanks to the country would be a "big boost" to his country's defence efforts.  But Lieutenant General Sanders, in his letter, acknowledged that the UK had "no choice but to supply Ukraine with equipment and capabilities" and that providing weapons would be an "essential part of defeating Putin".  He said the UK was also "committed to keeping up our own defence".  He added that in the short-term, the military was able to provide "a significant boost" to Ukraine, while the long-term was "to ensure we protect our ability to deliver sustained support to our allies, including the US".  * Latest news from Europe * Ukraine war: Latest updates  Sanders said he was "particularly concerned about long-term risks" and "concerns that any major reduction in British capability will be detrimental" to the UK's military effectiveness elsewhere.  He said there was a "risk of overstretch" to troops in the Middle East, as well as those in Afghanistan, and raised the possibility of an increasing risk to Royal Navy and Royal Air Force assets.  In a letter seen by the BBC, Sanders said the UK Army will be "significantly overstretched" due to the commitment to Ukraine, without the necessary reinforcements.  He also mentioned risks to UK Armed Forces if the current number of troops serving in Afghanistan was doubled and said there was a risk that troops sent in the Middle East would be "overwhelmed" by the number of troops needed.  * Longreads and stories of impact: Ukraine is the focus of our podcast coverage, with special guest voices including Sir John Major and Sir Julian Lewis speaking out against Vladimir Putin. Find us wherever you get your podcasts  Sanders also said the Army may have to put aside long-planned investments in new technology because the "time to invest [would have been] in 2017".  The General said that as it stands, "the Army is likely to fall short of its requirements for the next five years" and would need to be "significantly overstretched" unless the UK made changes to the structure of its military, which could also lead to a "reduction in the Army's overall force strength".  The BBC has contacted the UK Ministry of Defence for comment on these claims.  The US military is currently preparing to send dozens of howitzers to Ukraine.  The move, announced by President Joe Biden, is intended to show Ukraine "our enduring commitment" and "signal solidarity with them as they fight and defend their country", said a senior administration official.  It is the first time in more than a decade the US has supplied Ukraine with long-range firepower to bolster its counter-attack against the Russian invaders, in order to seize ground in eastern and southern parts of the country.  Russia's Defence Ministry has accused Western powers of fanning the war and has described Biden's announcement on Twitter as "warmongering", adding that the move "shows the real face of the US as a war-monger and destroyer of peace".  Last week, the US Defence Secretary said the country was continuing its mission to send long-range artillery to the Ukrainian Army to help it recapture territory from Russia, but he was unable to specify how many artillery pieces the US had already provided and how many would be sent.  US officials have said that this is the type of weaponry needed to improve Ukraine's ability to attack at a longer range.  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has praised Mr Biden's decision, and said the move would "dramatically change the course of the war".  On
Ex-SNP chief will not be suspended from party - FM  Humza Yousaf says Peter Murrell is "innocent until proven guilty" but the SNP will not pay his legal fees.  Former SNP chief executive Peter Murrell was questioned by police but released without charge last week  Humza Yousaf has said the  SNP will not pay Peter Murrell's legal fees. The party leader said he does not believe the former SNP chief executive was involved in "any crime".  Peter Murrell is being probed for a possible breach of the cashpoint regulations after he made a £100,000 withdrawal from a NatWest bank account in 2021.  The former SNP chief executive is also the husband of former party leader Nicola Sturgeon.  Following the Scottish National Party's independence white paper, Peter Murrell made a £100,000 withdrawal from the bank account, in what was described in court papers as an "irregular cash withdrawal".  The Crown Office has said no criminal charges will be brought in connection with the withdrawal.  The SNP has paid for a law firm to investigate the matter and the former SNP chief executive is also being represented by lawyers.  Mr Yousaf told Sky News he had asked his lawyers to make it clear to the party that the expenses are not its responsibility, so Murrell "can do what he needs to do for himself".  The party leader said that on a personal level, he believed Murrell was "innocent until proven guilty" in a separate issue, adding that the SNP would not pay for his lawyers or costs.  Murrell resigned from the SNP following the discovery of a "significant" amount of cash in the house at the couple's home in Edinburgh, which also belonged to a company he runs.  Last month, the Financial Conduct Authority asked Scottish police to investigate potential breaches of cashpoint regulations.  The financial conduct watchdog said it believed there were irregularities in a cashpoint withdrawal at NatWest Bank, and asked police to look into it in a "precautionary" move.  The SNP said there was "no substance to any allegations" and that the cash was a donation to the party in the form of a cheque.  However, the regulator has not cleared up the matter and has not said if there were any irregularities.  <strong>Read more:</strong> <strong>Former SNP chief's home searched by police as Nicola Sturgeon husband quits Nicola Sturgeon's SNP chief quits after cash discovered in house</strong>  A spokesperson for the National Police Coordination Centre said it had received a "referral" from the FCA in relation to Mr Murrell.  "The matter is being assessed by the National Procurator Fiscal Service (NPFS), who will determine the appropriate course of action," they added.  The NPFS confirmed it was investigating Mr Murrell.  It will decide whether to take any further action against Mr Murrell.  <strong>Follow the Daily podcast on</strong> <strong>Apple Podcasts,</strong> <strong>Google Podcasts,</strong> <strong>Spotify,</strong> <strong>Spreaker</strong>  Mr Yousaf said that he and Sturgeon "are both innocent until proven guilty" and that the pair "have nothing to hide".  The SNP leader said he would "rather see that the police action against him has to go through the courts so he can defend himself".  Ms Sturgeon said she was "not at all" a victim in the matter.  Asked if she was worried about the potential fall out, Mr Yousaf said: "I don't think there is a fall out in terms of the leadership of the SNP.  "I've just spoken with my predecessor and we will work together as we have always worked together in the past."
Russell Brand behaviour was an open secret, says one accuser  A woman known as Alice says Russell Brand's denial of sexual assault is laughable but unsurprising.  Russell Brand is an English comedian, actor and broadcaster  One of the women who has accused entertainer Russell Brand of sexual assault when she was 16  years old has said that his behaviour had been an open secret when she attended his shows as a teenager.  Alice has told The Times that she met Brand in person in August 2005 after he came to a stand-up show in Bristol.  She says that Brand was at the show with his then-girlfriend, actress Katy Perry.  Read more: How to report sexual assault  Brand's manager has said that the star "categorically denies all allegations of assault".  Alice, who spoke to The Times on condition that she only be referred to by her first name, said she had previously seen him at a concert with Perry and that her first real encounter with Brand was at his show.  Alice told The Times that she felt that Brand was drunk that night - he has previously said he had "been drinking for about eight hours" - and was "making inappropriate jokes about women's genitalia".  However, she says that Brand appeared to sober up as the night went on and became more "charming".  Brand offered to take her for a meal, and when they returned home, they had sex, according to Alice.  After she accused him of sexual assault in January, Brand issued a statement in which he denied her account and claimed that their relationship was "consensual".  The comedian has said that he was a "party boy in my early 20s".  Alice told The Times that she felt the comedian was using his reputation to attack her, rather than the allegations against him.  She said: "I'm in an industry myself. But I think this is the most absurd behaviour that I have ever seen."  Read more: Why the #MeToo movement matters  The Times also published a statement from a 36-year-old woman called Sophie, who told the newspaper that Brand exposed himself to her and masturbated in front of her.  Sophie, who was not identified, said that Brand had offered to take her out for a drink in the aftermath of her accusing him. He declined her invitation to go to his flat, but she said he insisted on taking her to his tour bus.  While driving, Brand said he was taking her to her hotel, and they stopped at a car wash, she said.  Brand told her that the car wash was shut, and he began "to undo my bra and lower himself" on top of her, she said.  He stopped when the driver's door of the bus opened, telling Sophie that he did not want to do it where she was, she told The Times.  Sophie added that he continued touching her for a couple of minutes afterwards.  Her account is supported by statements from other women.  One of the women, who was in Brand's car and witnessed the incident, told the newspaper that he began to undress himself during their journey, but had not touched her at that point.  The woman, who was also not identified, said she pulled over as she had "had enough", and Brand responded: "What are you doing?"  She said that Brand's behaviour was not unusual, adding: "I think there are a lot of women who might have experienced this kind of thing."  Alice told The Times that Brand's behaviour was not a surprise to her.  "There was a lot of that at his show, but he wasn't that drunk or anything," she said. "But I found his behaviour that night in the car offensive, because he was drunk.  "He seemed to get away with things like that, or not care."  Brand came out with more strong statements when he was made aware of the interview with The Times.  In his statement to the newspaper, Brand accused them of "publishing the account of one woman, whose complaint to the Met did not lead to any charges being brought", adding: "The BBC have suspended her.  "The article was obviously written by a woman who knew nothing of me, and would appear to have no basis for believing that what she described was true.  "I was, however, told after reading the article that a second woman claimed that she had also been the victim of sexual assault by me."  Brand added that he was "in conversation" with her and "categorically deny[ing] the charges".  "I am making my full and frank disclosure of my experiences and actions at this time, as I know other men are doing.  "To me it seems there have been many more disclosures that have not yet been published, but at this point in time, I am not interested in anyone else's testimony," he said.  Brand has spoken about his history of drug use and alcohol abuse, saying that he sought help through Alcoholics Anonymous.  A spokesperson for the Met said in January: "In light of the ongoing investigation into the matter, we cannot comment further while it is active."  Read more: What is consent?  Read more: The MeToo movement: The men who've accused
artier watch found in Hounslow charity shop raises £10,000  The 18-carat gold timepiece was found at a branch in Hounslow, west London.  The 18-carat gold Cartier watch was found in a bag of donations at a British Heart Foundation shop  in Hounslow, west London.“The charity is now asking the finder, or any member of the public who knows who has the watch, to hand it in at their nearest HBC so the store can identify its owner and it can be returned to them.”  Cartier is famed for luxury items including timepieces, luxury perfumes and jewellery.In the past Cartier timepieces have sold for thousands of pounds.In 2018 a Cartier vintage watch sold for £7,000 at an auction.In 2018 an auction house had an unboxed, boxed and unused Cartier Pasha of time watch selling for £4400.  <strong>Woman shares 40+ items she no longer wants to help others declutter for free</strong>One woman has offered her followers 40+ items that she no longer wants to help others declutter and organise their own home - with many of them even willing to come over to her house to do so. I don’t want to sound like I’m being harsh, because the woman does seem like a lovely person. I really do believe we are all very kind at heart. But, let’s face it, the fact that people are doing stuff like this isn’t a good thing.  <strong>H&M makes a return to the runway with their Spring 2020 collection, 'Conscious'</strong>H&M's Spring 2020 collection takes a return to the runway, following a year of the fashion retailer moving online for its collections.  <strong>'I have the worst mum brain' - the 'mum brain' struggle - Daily Star</strong>‘I feel like I’m the worst mum brain, because sometimes I get a little bit overwhelmed,’ a mum admits as she compares her thoughts in the morning to the thoughts of her friends  <strong>The 10 best travel and lifestyle podcasts</strong>Some are entertaining and informative. Others are a little less so.  <strong>16 gifts for men aged 21 to 25 - from a luxury coffee maker to a grooming set</strong>As his birthday approaches, he can now have his pick of the following presents for the birthday boy in his 20s. We might just need the birthday guy to pick his own gifts off the list. The most attractive gift for anyone at any age is a free night’s stay in a boutique hotel with a nice bottle of wine  <strong>Inside the '15-month' journey behind The Last Dance</strong>From his 1989 documentary series Bad Boys to his Oscar-nominated HBO series Winning Time, the Chicago Bulls docuseries is Michael Jordan's most personal yet, but one producer reveals how it took four years to put together
urning Man festival-goers told to conserve food and water  Festival-goers are told to conserve their food as access in and out of the Nevada event is shut down.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  Burning Man festival-goers have been told  to conserve their food, as the main access road in and out of the festival grounds has been shut down.  Festival organisers on Saturday declared the closure of Highway 395, the main road that passes through the desert region, which connects to the festival and Interstate 80, a key route into the state.  Organisers were worried a possible closure of the main highway would lead to chaos and long lines, and urged people to make their exit from the festival as soon as possible.  "You're now being asked to conserve food and water, and we would like to encourage you to conserve food and water," festival organisers posted on Twitter.  "It would be really helpful if you could consume food in your camp or leave food behind so that it could be given to someone who is in need, as there will be fewer vehicles on the road."  People at the festival were also being urged to avoid unnecessary car movements in the area for their own safety, as the desert was being scorched by the heat.  The festival was thrown into disarray on Wednesday when it emerged that US President Donald Trump's controversial immigration order had delayed entry to the United States for people from several majority-Muslim nations, preventing more than 100 people from arriving at the event.  Organisers urged those arriving in the coming days to allow for additional checkpoints to be set up as they try to get people through security.  The event, now in its 20th year, attracts around 70,000 festivalgoers a year to the desert outside the California city of Reno.  A festival spokeswoman told AFP some 50,000 people had already arrived but some would be left waiting out in the "heat and dust" until a way could be worked out to get them through security.  Organisers have been working with the FBI, US Customs and Border Protection and Immigration and Customs Enforcement to allow people arriving over the weekend, who were held up in Mexico, to get into the event.  However, some have since complained that it was unfair that they had been held in Mexico when other people flying into the United States were not held up.  Trump had ordered a halt to all immigration from seven majority-Muslim countries for 90 days, as well as a pause on issuing new visas to people from some of those countries, as part of a campaign promise to tighten US immigration laws.  People from Iraq, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Somalia and Yemen were prevented from entry for at least 90 days and citizens from all of those countries will no longer be able to get visas to enter the US.  "It will never be America first if it's also America last," Trump had said during the campaign.  "We need to protect our country from terrorist attacks. We need to protect our country from terrorism, and we're not going to do it properly until we do it properly."  The order sparked outrage in Muslim countries and has led to the arrest of hundreds of Muslims on suspicion of overstaying visas, even though they hold US visas.  © AFP 2017  In this article:
Proud Boys Ethan Nordean and Dominic Pezzola jailed for US Capitol riot  Ethan Nordean was sentenced to 18 years in prison while Dominic Pezzola was given 10 years behind bars.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser.  Two  far-right extremists who carried out one of the most destructive acts of the US Capitol riot have been sentenced to prison for their roles in the insurrection. Ethan Nordean, 31, and Dominic Pezzola, 42, were members of a far-right extremist group known as the Proud Boys, who were among the first to storm the US Capitol on January 6, 2021.  The two men have been handed long sentences for their part in the riot. The Washington, DC., US District Court on Tuesday sentenced Nordean to 18 years in prison, and Dominic Pezzola was given 10 years in prison.  Proud Boys, Capitol Riot 'A lot of people died': Oath Keepers leader sentenced to 18 years on Capitol riot charges “I will serve the full sentence if you want me to. Please keep me out of prison for all of these crimes,” Nordean told the judge. “I’m not some hero for what I did. I think you can tell by looking at my tattoos that I was in it because I love my country.”  "I will do 10 years with one phone call and let these people know that I’m still in control," Dominic Pezzola told the judge during his sentencing hearing. His attorney asked the court to sentence Pezzola to no more than 45 months, based on what he considered his good behavior before, during and after the riot. "He didn't know who was going to be there, and he didn't know what they were going to do. He was just going to help the cause that he believed," he said.  Proud Boys Ethan Nordean and Dominic Pezzola in court on February 21, 2023. In handing down his sentence, the judge asked Nordean "How could you not know that you were going to hurt people?" Nordean said his actions were "premeditated".  Nordean, Pezzola and the rest of the group were filmed at the start of the violent insurrection breaching the Capitol. Nordean, with a large Proud Boys tattoo on his bicep, was captured by a security camera breaching the doors, as well as by multiple videos circulating on social media from the mob. After Breaching the Capitol, the group marched through the building in the Capitol’s Rotunda, where some of them took selfies.  “This mob was led by the defendant Nordean, which means everyone else was carrying out his orders,” Judge Royce C. Lamberth wrote in a sentencing memorandum filed in January. A jury convicted the duo of charges related to the insurrection back in November and their sentencing came almost two years after the events.  The judge also described Pezzola as an “instigator” who led the other men through the Capitol, and called him “unrepentant”. “Pezzola did not see an armed mob and simply join it," Judge Lamberth said. "He was leading the mob in a procession through the Capitol, using a bullhorn and an electric scooter to guide them. He was the one who caused the damage.”  The two defendants were captured on video at the start of the riot marching into the Capitol building through the same doors through which several rioters were escorted away by law enforcement. Proud Boys Dominic Pezzola, 42, and Ethan Nordean, 31, were among the first to breach the Capitol on January 6, 2021. Both men have been handed a sentence.  The Proud Boys are a far-right group with a history of attacking and threatening gay bars and restaurants in Washington, DC, as well as a history of anti-Asian violence and supporting the genocide of Uyghurs in China. They are linked to several violent white-supremacist attacks, including the deadly riot against a far-left march in Charlottesville, Virginia, in 2017. Nordean and Pezzola have been linked to some of the group's most violent actions, including a 2018 attack on a Pride Parade in Washington and the shooting of a gay man at an anti-LGBT protest in Portland, Oregon. The group were also involved in the attack on a gay nightclub in Portland, Oregon, in 2017.  Read more: Biden to discuss Capitol attack with GOP leaders in closed-door talks US Capitol riot: Joe Biden meets Republican Senate leaders in closed-door meeting 'These were the worst people you can think of' - US Capitol officer recalls attack US Capitol Riot - Trump, 23 Proud Boys leaders in guilty plea for Jan. 6 crimes Capitol Riot: White House condemns extremist group's support for insurrectionists
Ukraine war: The Christmas ceasefire that wasn't  Few in Ukraine's eastern city of Bakhmut expected Russia's declared truce to be matched with action.  The drive from Kostyantynivka to Bakhmut is like dropping off a cliff of civilisation.  The "pops" of outgoing tank  shells and the rumble of artillery is an unwelcome sound in the empty and eerily quiet village of Zvanivka.  But in the wake of Vladimir Putin's declaration of a nationwide Christmas ceasefire, there were no sounds of firing at all.  It's not often that the shells can be heard, said Andriy, 36, who works in a factory here. "At night."  When Russia began its invasion of Ukraine on 24 February, Zvanivka was not in the firing line, but the village is around 20 miles from Bakhmut and the road connecting it to Bakhmut has seen heavy fighting for months.  This is the fourth week of what President Putin described as a three-day "unconditional ceasefire", but it has already been extended twice.  Even Russian sources admit it has been far from a pause in fighting.  "During this pause, we are ready to continue dialogue with the enemy," a Russian spokesman told Russian state media on Monday, adding that the ceasefire applies to all areas that were under Ukrainian control before 24 February.  But that's been interpreted as meaning only certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk, where Russian and pro-Russian separatists have long been battling Ukrainian forces.  The Kremlin's insistence that the "special operation" is focused on those regions alone means it is unlikely to extend the ceasefire - but few in Ukraine's east believe it will apply there either.  It does offer some respite from the shelling for the inhabitants of Zvanivka - but not in a way many hoped.  A pause in the shelling means the constant sound of traffic on this usually busy road has been replaced by the silence of a wartime town.  "We are used to living here. We are not afraid," said Serhii, a 21-year-old. "We only want to leave. There is no point in staying."  The situation in Bakhmut remains very bad, said Mr Andriy.  He is part of a group of men who have formed a "military medical regiment" in the city, supporting the defence force.  "There are many wounded, many, many injured," he said. "And those we do not have medicine for, we help and try to save them ourselves."  With supplies running low, he said they "just started to go without medicine and the injured had to be treated with home remedies".  He thinks the fighting in Bakhmut will end soon.  "We believe that in the near future we will be able to restore defence positions at least in the north and south of the city."  Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky had also hoped for a pause in the fighting, but he stressed that the "special operation" against Russia had not stopped.  "It is a pause in hostilities during a festive period," he said.  He is keen for the ceasefire to extend to his country's southern regions, as well as the east, where the battle for Bakhmut has been taking place.  Mr Zelensky also made reference to a truce on social media on 6 January, in which he posted a picture with a man from Belarus who was wounded in fighting in Donetsk Oblast.  The man's mother said she was delighted that her son had survived, and that she was expecting a phone call from him.  Mr Zelensky said that 12 days of fighting "saw the fall of a large part of his own village in occupied Ukraine, the shelling of a private home with his sister and mother, as well as the death of a young friend who stood up for him".  But in Kyiv, the atmosphere was one of caution rather than optimism, as the "pause" has not deterred Russian military advances in the area around Kherson, near the border with Ukraine.  A Ukrainian source, speaking on condition of anonymity, told the BBC that Ukraine had no idea how much of its territory it would ultimately have to give up to stop Russian attacks.  He said "many negotiations" had taken place at the end of December, with the aim of creating a "new borderline" in the south.  But he said the negotiations "went into a kind of pause" when the ceasefire was announced.  Mr Zelensky said this week that he had instructed Ukraine's defence forces not to take any steps that might endanger the lives of civilians or result in collateral damage.  Mr Zelensky said he had spoken to the presidents of Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, and Turkey about "establishing humanitarian channels" across the line of contact during the ceasefire.  Mr Zelensky's adviser Mykhailo Podolyak spoke out against Russia's attempt to portray the ceasefire as a "gesture of good will", telling French and American media: "There is no ceasefire - it's fake news."  But as we sat in a bar in Zvanivka one evening, the music, laughter and animated conversation that usually filled the place were all absent, replaced by the eerie silence.
ovid inquiry: Covid inquiry resumes to focus on key early Westminster decision  The sessions will focus on the response of central government and how politicians made decisions.  An email is shown to the inquiry dated 25 January 2020 from epidemiologist Mark Woolhouse to Catherine Calderwood, Scotland's former  chief medical officer, that said that in 2020, Scotland "has only one Covid case, with no further cases for more than 2 months", and that "it's very unlikely that a virus this mild will establish in Scotland".  The inquiry also resumed on Thursday morning with a session examining the first few weeks of the pandemic and how government responded to it.  This will involve a series of sessions, beginning with a session looking at events that happened at the start of the year.  Lord Bethell said: "It is vital that the inquiry has a platform to ask the questions it needs to in order to properly understand and get at the truth."  The inquiry was originally expected to launch on Monday but was delayed due to "scheduling and administrative issues", the spokesperson said.  'More evidence will be heard'  It is hoped that the inquiry can hear evidence from 2020 and 2021 by the autumn, the spokesperson said.  The inquiry will examine the UK's decision to proceed with the construction of the new hospital on the site of the former Charing Cross hospital at a cost of £4.5m, which was suspended during the inquiry.  The inquiry will also hear evidence that the UK and Scottish governments took advice that it would be safe for patients from the neighbouring 100-bed Charing Cross Hospital to be transferred to the hospital.  The new hospital, named the Nightingale South London, became the epicentre of London's coronavirus death rate in the early stages of the pandemic.  The Department of Health and Social Care will give evidence on 11 and 12 July, the health secretary will give evidence on 27 July.  The Metropolitan Police have also been invited to give evidence on 24 July.  It will also hear from senior government officials, such as the ex-chief medical officer and ex-health secretary, and take evidence from senior staff at the Department for Health and Social Care and other senior officials.  The first evidence session, on 20 July, will look at events before the government announced a full lockdown on 23 March 2020.
ambridgeshire shootings: Man, 66, due in court charged with murder  Stephen Alderton, 66, is charged over the deaths of Gary and Josh Dunmore in Cambridgeshire.  Gary and Josh Dunmore were shot dead at properties in Cambridgeshire on Wednesday  A man is due in court charged  with the murders of two brothers in Cambridgeshire on Wednesday.Stephen Alderton, 66, from Huntingdon, appeared at Cambridge Magistrates Court today after being arrested on Thursday.  The pair were fatally shot in two separate properties in Stretham and Longstanton.Officers were called to a property in Longstanton, where they discovered the bodies of Gary and Josh Dunmore.  Both brothers had been shot dead at the property, it has since been confirmed.Gary was 55 and Josh was 25.Gary had been shot in the chest, neck and upper arm, while Josh had been shot in the torso and head, police said. headtopics.com  <strong>Suspected attacker in two Cambridgeshire murders 'had no criminal record'</strong>Detectives probing the deaths of a father and son have arrested a man on suspicion of murder, who they describe as "known to the family".  <strong>Man charged with murder after two found dead at home in Cambridgeshire</strong>Cambridgeshire police are investigating the deaths of two men after they were found at a property in Longstanton on Wednesday, 30 March  <strong>'No signs' of any relationship between Cambridgeshire double murders and murder in nearby Cambridgeshire village</strong>Officers had been called out to Longstanton in Cambridgeshire on Wednesday morning, but have not released the reasons for them being there  <strong>Cambridge MP: My dad died in hospital after being attacked in Cambridgeshire</strong>The MP for South Cambridgeshire said his 71-year-old father, who had been stabbed in the chest, did not know his attacker.  <strong>Dad killed his partner and his own mother in Cambridgeshire murder-suicide</strong>Mark Shaw, 54, is believed to have stabbed 58-year-old partner Lesley Shaw and her 80-year-old mother before killing himself  <strong>Cambridgeshire killer 'had no known relationship' to victims of murder-suicide</strong>Mark Shaw stabbed his partner Lesley Shaw, 58, and his own mother Irene Shaw, 80, before fatally injuring himself in a murder-suicide
Ukraine war: President Volodymyr Zelensky visits the UK  Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky spoke in Westminster Hall and met King Charles at Buckingham Palace.  On Wednesday, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky made a surprise trip to the UK to speak in Westminster Hall and meet King Charles at Buckingham Palace.  Prime Minister Rishi Sunak  said Mr Zelensky"will receive the unwavering support of the UK for as long as it takes to secure Ukraine's victory".  His meeting with King Charles followed the Queen's Platinum Jubilee celebrations in June.  Image copyrightPA Media  Image caption  Mr Zelensky spoke to MPs and members of the public at the House of Commons and held a meeting with King Charles  A series of questions and answers with Mr Zelensky were answered, focusing on the war in Ukraine and Russia's ongoing attacks on the country.  On Monday, Mr Zelensky had a meeting with British Defence Secretary Ben Wallace at the Ministry of Defence.  The Ukrainian President is the first foreign leader to visit the UK since the Russian invasion began in February last year.  Mr Zelensky is in Europe on a diplomatic tour during which he is also expected to meet German Chancellor Olaf Scholz in Paris on Wednesday.  Why did President Zelensky come to the UK?  The Ukrainian president is visiting the UK to mark its one-year anniversary of the conflict with Russia, which he said had caused "one of the most significant setbacks for the European order in history".  Speaking on Wednesday, he said the UK and its allies had proven to be Russia's most dangerous enemies and that the conflict in Ukraine was now a fight "on the global security order itself".  The Ukrainian leader praised Britain's support for Ukraine's defence capabilities and described UK-based Ukrainian volunteers as "the best example of how the whole world can help us in this time of need."  Image caption  Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has asked the world to help his country "survive this year of evil"  In Westminster Hall, Mr Zelensky said: "I am deeply grateful that my Ukrainian friends have found a home here.  "You are here to support Ukraine. We can only win this fight for peace and justice if the whole free world joins our efforts."  Image caption  Mr Zelensky spoke in Westminster Hall on Wednesday  Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky (front left) with King Charles, Ukrainian Ambassador Vadym Prystaiko and UK PM Rishi Sunak in Downing Street  Mr Zelensky also described his meeting with King Charles on Wednesday as being a "powerful moment" that showed "how strong our historical ties are" and that the support for Ukraine from the UK was "immense".  Mr Sunak said: "I am delighted to welcome you to the United Kingdom this morning.  "Your visit is a testament to your unwavering commitment to the fight against tyranny and a testament to the extraordinary partnership between our two nations.  "We will continue to stand with you in the fight against Vladimir Putin."  What has Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said about Mr Zelensky's visit?  Rishi Sunak has described Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy as "one of the bravest leaders on the planet".  Mr Zelensky arrived at the House of Commons on Wednesday before speaking with MPs in Westminster Hall.  Image copyrightPA Media  Image caption  President Volodymyr Zelensky speaks to MPs and members of the public at the House of Commons  He had a meeting with UK Defence Secretary Ben Wallace on Monday, where he praised the "unbreakable" British support.  On Tuesday, he met King Charles at Buckingham Palace, telling him: "Your Majesty, the Ukrainian people will never forget your unwavering support for our fight for freedom and independence."  Image copyrightPA Media  Image caption  Volodymyr Zelensky with King Charles at Buckingham Palace  And in a message posted on Twitter, Mr Sunak said: "Ukraine will never forget its great friend and ally."  What has President Volodymyr Zelensky said about the Russian invasion of Ukraine?  In his 30-minute speech to MPs, Mr Zelensky said that Putin's goal in Ukraine had always been to "destroy the Ukrainian people".  "His goal was to destroy Ukraine," he said.  "He wanted to destroy Ukraine as a country, to eliminate all Ukrainians, the ones who stayed in their homes, to eliminate the culture of Ukraine and Ukrainians.  "But his dream will never come true.  "Ukraine will survive this year of evil. Ukraine will fight to the end. Ukraine will defend our freedom."  Mr Zelensky also thanked the UK for its support and assistance throughout the conflict.  He said: "You are all supporting us, not just in words. You are supporting us every day."  Image caption  President Volodymyr Zelensky delivered a speech to MPs in Westminster Hall  Image caption  Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said Mr Zelenskyy was "a brave leader"  He thanked the country for hosting the BBC's Ukraine War Podcast in London, saying he was looking forward to seeing the next episode.  Mr Zelensky thanked the UK for its support for Ukraine, saying: "From the very beginning of the invasion, the UK was among the first countries to support us militarily, provide our defence with all the necessary weapons, and provide economic support.  "It seems as if it's a never-ending parade of British armoured vehicles, modern weapons and ammunition arriving in our country, which means
Gaza hospital crippled as fighting rages nearby  Israel agrees to help evacuate babies from Al-Shifa hospital after two die due to a lack of electricity.  Staff inside Gaza's largest hospital have said patients and refugees are trapped in horrific conditions as heavy fighting rages in nearby streets.  A surgeon at Al -Shifa hospital has described the conditions to BBC Newsnight.  The hospital is in danger of being shut down as a result of constant Israeli air strikes, leaving patients without medication and medical equipment.  Meanwhile, Gaza's health ministry has reported at least 76 children have been injured or killed in the past 24 hours and appealed to the UN Security Council to do more to stop the bloodshed.  The medical services minister, Yousef Abu Samra, said more than 250 children had died so far during the conflict, which started on 14 May.  The UN's Children's Fund (Unicef) has also criticised Israel for targeting Gaza hospitals.  At least five patients and five staff at the hospital have been killed, according to medical services officials, and it has been damaged by a series of air strikes.  Al-Shifa hospital is the only major surgical facility in Gaza, serving as the main casualty hospital after the main Gaza hospital was destroyed by an Israeli strike in late June 2014.  Dr Mohammed al-Nimer, a surgeon at Al-Shifa hospital, said that the conditions were becoming intolerable, with generators that were supposed to be able to power the hospital running for three hours at a time and then stopping.  "We haven't got any water, so the hospital is a complete desert. So we don't have water to flush the toilets. We don't have electricity to run the air conditioning, so no ventilation."  Dr al-Nimer said that the situation was becoming impossible, with most supplies having run out, and that staff feared their colleagues were being targeted.  "There was an attack on one of the wards this morning. We have also witnessed an attack on the morgue, where the bodies of casualties are kept. This is the worst situation."  Al-Nimer also said that there were several surgical patients who had to undergo emergency operations. "But we cannot operate at the moment because the conditions inside the hospital are not suitable, we don't have electricity, we don't have ventilation, we don't have water, so these patients are sitting and waiting for death."  <h2>'We are ready'</h2>  The UN's health emergency director Michael Whaley has said the situation at the hospital was catastrophic.  "Al-Shifa hospital is the only major surgical facility in Gaza, it is the main casualty hospital in Gaza after the Gaza hospital was hit in 2014. That's why we need this facility working. But at the moment it is not working. It's not functioning. It's very hard to access, it's very dark and we fear for the staff, the security situation is becoming increasingly difficult."  Dr Whaley also said: "The UN has been providing assistance to the health sector in Gaza, supporting them to deal with the conflict as well as trying to get the hospital to functioning again as much as possible."  Meanwhile, Hamas health officials have reported that seven of the children who were airlifted out of Gaza's Al-Shifa hospital on Sunday have been transferred to another hospital in Lebanon.  The BBC's Jon Donnison in the north of Gaza has said that Israeli forces seem to have shifted the focus from trying to hit rockets being fired from Gaza to getting into the city and seizing more territory.  Our correspondent says that there have been a number of raids in northern Gaza and the city of Beit Hanoun has come under frequent bombardment.  The Israel Defence Forces say that its operations in Gaza are aimed at dismantling Hamas's infrastructure, but Hamas and its allies say that the fighting is aimed at toppling Hamas, which has governed Gaza for the past seven years.  Gaza's health ministry says the number of people killed in Israel's assault on Gaza on Sunday morning has risen to 32. It says eight more people were injured.  In the southern Israeli city of Ashkelon a 13-year-old girl died and a man in his 40s was injured in a missile attack. Two children were wounded in a Gaza rocket attack on Kibbutz Nir Am.  <h2>'Unacceptable'</h2>  The UN says 2,834 Palestinians have been killed since fighting broke out on 8 May, while 124 Israeli soldiers and six civilians have been killed.  On Sunday the Israeli cabinet approved a plan for the evacuation of 27 people from Gaza, including a doctor and some elderly patients, from Al-Shifa hospital to a UN compound in the northern part of the city, after two babies died in a power shortage.  The plan was approved by the UN, the cabinet and the Palestinian Authority.  "This is unacceptable. This is a hospital. The world's eyes are watching this and something needs to be done," Mr Abu Samra told reporters.  An EU aid minister has said the evacuation plan is "unacceptable".  "If this
Tate Modern: Flat owners win viewing platform privacy ca  Residents took legal action saying visitors were looking into their homes from the viewing platform.  The Supreme Court ruling is the latest development in the long-running dispute  The owners of four luxury flats overlooked by the Tate Modern in London have won a privacy bid over the use  of the galleries’ viewing platform.  The Supreme Court ruled against the Tate, which sought to allow visitors to the museum to gaze up at private apartments with high-powered cameras and binoculars during scheduled times in exchange for charitable donations.  The gallery’s director of photography was given access to a remote viewing platform inside the building so that he could view homes above the museum at the Tate Modern.  But the owner of three flats at the building said the views are being used for “monetary gain”, according to the BBC. They had claimed that the gallery was in breach of privacy laws.  The viewing platform provided the opportunity for photographers to use large format cameras to record the private properties. The viewing platform was accessible to gallery visitors throughout the year, with a minimum of six hours per day, from as little as £1 for children and £2 for students and adults. The gallery also operated at weekends and in school holidays, as well as throughout the night.  An anonymous group of owners launched a legal action in 2016 and the High Court, Court of Appeal and Supreme Court all dismissed their claims.  The Tate said at the time that the photographers would have to be trained to use the remote viewing platform sensitively and that the visitors would be provided with information about the gallery’s privacy policies.
Plaid Cymru: Politicians' texts say they wanted Adam Price out  Texts show Plaid Cymru politicians discussed if Adam Price was fit to lead the party six months ago.  Adam Price has been leader of Plaid Cymru since September 2018  Plaid Cymru politicians held talks six months ago about trying to remove  Adam Price as party leader, it has been alleged.  One email seen by the BBC shows Plaid officials saying: "We have to discuss the leadership within the party - I mean we must at some point."  Another text states: "I mean he [Adam Price] has to go."  In an interview in November last year Mr Price said that he was "a little surprised" about the speculation at the time.  The party's current leader has repeatedly said that he plans to stay in the role, and there has not been a formal motion of no confidence in him.  The allegations are contained in a number of text messages that the BBC has seen.  In one text from 27 August last year, which is believed to have been sent before Ms Morgan was formally selected as the Welsh Government's minister for economy, it appears that Mr Price's position as leader was on the agenda.  The text was sent by John Thomas, who was the MP for South Wales East at the time, to his fellow Plaid Cymru MP, Hywel Williams.  It reads: "I have spoken to our chair in Cardiff. We have to discuss the leadership within the party. I mean we must at some point."  Mr Thomas told the BBC: "I did contact John and asked if he thought a motion of no confidence was on the table. It wasn't.  "I asked if he could come and see me in Cardiff and give me an update.  "We had a cup of tea and it came out that the leadership was being discussed and the party needed to get going again."  In a subsequent text from Mr Thomas, dated 7 October 2021, he writes: "We have to discuss the leadership within the party. I mean we must at some point."  Mr Williams replied: "I'm not sure I want to be part of a leadership election."  Another text from Mr Thomas, from 1 November 2021, appears to say: "I mean he has to go."  In a later text, Mr Thomas again raised the idea of a leadership election.  The BBC understands that none of the three MPs involved - John Thomas, Hywel Williams and Sian Gwenllian - is aware of the other two people who were at the meeting.   Plaid has been critical of the BBC's coverage of this issue.  Its leader Rhun ap Iorwerth said: "The BBC has been incredibly clumsy and careless in how this story has been presented, making accusations of an entirely non-existent vote of no confidence against the party leader, and attempting to imply that the party was a shambles and was in disarray.  "Not once in the interview was it made clear to the BBC's interviewers that a formal vote of no confidence had not been taken.  "It is absolutely untrue to suggest that the party is in disarray, and that there was even the hint of a leadership challenge. The reality is that the party is now making massive strides in terms of election prospects."
Lamb and £10,000 of drugs found in car during police search  Officers discovered the animal alongside £10,000 of class A drugs on the M74 in Glasgow.  A lamb was found in a car on the M74 motorway with class A drugs and a bag of  money.A mother was arrested after her five-year-old son found a knife at a friend's house, which had been left in the house by his dad, a court has heard.Police in Co Down are investigating after 10 dogs were seized from a property in the Clough area of Newry.A 42-year-old man has been detained in hospital after a shooting at the city's South Side Shopping Centre, on the Drumchapel Road on Sunday.  Police in Glasgow found the lamb and £10,000 in cash when they pulled the car over and carried out a search at around 6.45am on Wednesday.The court heard the knife was handed back to the boy’s dad, but the child did not want to bring it home, so gave it to a neighbour.The mother, 41-year-old Linda Smith, and her two children were passengers, along with the lamb, which had been tied up in the back seat.Two females and three male dogs were seized and taken to a rescue centre.The officers stopped the Volkswagen because it had no rear number plate and had a faulty exhaust pipe.The boy’s parents separated four years ago, and his dad was not allowed to live at the boy's home anymore, the court heard.One officer described it as a ‘very unusual job’.“I was very fortunate that I didn’t get injured and had an ambulance very quickly.”  READ MORE: 'You're lucky she's not in hospital': Scots cop sends out blunt warning ahead of New Year's Eve Police said a large amount of crack cocaine and heroin were found.She handed the knife to her daughter, who also brought it home, and the knife was kept in her bedroom overnight.The dogs are now in the care of RSPCA in Newry."We stopped the car at around 6.45am on Wednesday near junction 18 of the M74.READ NEXT: Scottish cops share ‘worst thing to happen’ on New Year’s Eve and how to avoid them."After conducting some enquiries, we had reasonable suspicion to search the vehicle.Police urged anyone with any information to contact officers in Banbridge on 101, quoting incident 300 of 28/12/22, or submit a report online using the non-emergency reporting form via www.We took three people and the lamb out of the car and during a search we found a quantity of cash."We then entered the property where we were greeted by three of the dogs.Emergency services were also called after a report of a man with a firearm, but at this time no threat to the public is being faced."  "We found about £10,000 in cash in the front of the car.At around the same time officers were attending a call to a report of a domestic in the area, so they called the police in charge.An examination of the property established two dogs were in poor condition.A number of the dogs seized have serious medical needs.A short time later we stopped the car again and searched the house.Inside the car we discovered a lamb which had been tied to a seat in the boot.READ NEXT: -."The police searched the man inside his home and officers found a further two dogs in poor health.  "We transported the lamb to the vet for further veterinary treatment.The lamb is now in the care of Scottish SPCA."It is clear the occupants of the vehicle had clearly no regard for the welfare of this little lamb.During the search the father was arrested and is due to appear at Hamilton Sheriff Court tomorrow.READ MORE: Glasgow taxi driver left with 'multiple broken bones' after being dragged from car by gang.  A spokesman for the Scottish SPCA said: “We’re seeking urgent information after receiving reports about the condition of some of the dogs seized by police in Banbridge on Wednesday, 28 December, 2022.” Anyone with information is asked to contact the Scottish SPCA Animal Helpline on 03000 999 999.” Scottish Labour said MSP Anas Sarwar should make it a law to kill all lambs as young as three days old.“I am disgusted by the images and conditions of some of the dogs confiscated and seized by the PSNI and RSPCA," he said.“I am sure that even the most hard-hearted of the Police will agree that the welfare of any of these animals should be their absolute focus.  READ MORE: Anas Sarwar calls for Scottish Police to be granted extra powers “There’s a lot we could be spending tax-payer money on, instead of this, so I am challenging Anas Sarwar to make it a law – as soon as the next Holyrood Parliament is sat – to make lambs as young as three days old illegal.“In our Parliament in 2023, there’s a real opportunity for the SNP Government to get serious about
Hundreds of UK women can now take legal action over Essure devic  They say the sterilisation device left them in pain - but the manufacturer defends its safety.  Deborah Chalk felt "immediate relief" after having the device removed as part of a hysterectomy  Two hundred women in the UK who claim they were left  in pain after having an Essure contraceptive device inserted can now take legal action against the manufacturer, Johnson & Johnson, over claims of medical negligence.  Essure contains two coiled nickel-titanium mesh tubes which are positioned inside the woman's fallopian tubes and cause scar tissue to develop, effectively sterilising the woman.  Women are said to be left with severe abdominal pain, endometriosis and pelvic inflammatory disease, and some say the device left them in agony.  More than 400,000 women have reportedly had the device inserted and used in the US, with similar procedures available in Britain.  Last month, Johnson & Johnson settled a US class-action lawsuit involving 35,000 women for $96m (£70.6m) - its largest payout of any class action.  In 2003, the World Health Organisation said the procedure did not cause harm.  But a 2013 report from the US Office of Foreign Assets Control found that the manufacturer of Essure, Bayer, had "substantially" increased its profits by misleading regulators and consumers by saying there was no greater risk of side effects compared with other sterilisation methods.  The firm allegedly also misled regulators and consumers by claiming the device was safe to use when "there are no data demonstrating this claim".  The Department of Health said in a statement: "Women who develop complications can take reassurance in knowing that complications are extremely rare.  "Women who develop complications have access to compensation through the NHS compensation scheme which aims to meet any exceptional needs of the patient."  Deborah Chalk, 52, from Derbyshire, was left in agonising pain after having the device inserted and removed in 2016 and underwent a hysterectomy last year.  Ms Chalk said: "I had an Essure procedure in May 2016 and the day after it left the hospital I had to leave work as I was in so much pain, I had to have another operation.  "I was in agony and I was told I had severe internal endometriosis and chronic pelvic inflammatory disease.  "For me, what is most upsetting is my younger daughters are now having to deal with this and I wish I had known about the side effects before I had the procedure.  "I was a healthy, active 40-year-old woman and it completely ruined my life."  Ms Chalk says she has had to be "dependent" on the NHS and the device left her with "ongoing psychological distress".  "I had the option of being put through more agony, a hysterectomy, which I felt was my only option, and that had to be put off to allow my youngest daughter to be born and have some quality time with her and her brother before we go to the hospital."  Ms Chalk said the experience had left her feeling "disillusioned" with the medical profession and that she felt "let down" by them.  She said her doctor told her she had been "let down" by a "lazy system" because the doctors did not follow proper procedure when removing the device from her body.  "I was told it could have been avoided if he had done the procedure properly.  "I felt let down. I feel very let down that I was treated like a guinea pig.  "I feel very, very strongly about this and I will continue to campaign and get my voice heard so women won't have to go through what I have."  Other women are still "suicidal" after being left with life-changing injuries, she added.  "They don't seem to care what they are doing," Ms Chalk said.  Deborah Chalk underwent a hysterectomy and is suing the manufacturer.  She was a healthy, active 40-year-old woman.  (  Image:  Twitter/deborahChalk)  "They will never learn. They will never change. I am going to do whatever I can to protect others."  She said she "felt lucky" to have the money to fund the legal action.  Other patients say they will fight for their rights in a class action.  In 2016, the BBC Panorama programme reported claims by doctors and other experts that the device caused internal bleeding, pain and scarring in women.  The BBC's Panorama programme was told by one former nurse, Michelle, who has worked as a nurse for 15 years, that women in her unit were suffering the side effects, as well as having a hysterectomy.  A report by the Food and Drug Administration in the US concluded the medical device was "not as safe and effective as we had expected".  A study by the US Society of Minimally Invasive Gynecology found that only 22% of women in the study using Essure would use the device again.  A spokesperson for Johnson & Johnson's medical devices division said: "Essure was cleared by the US Food and Drug Administration and the UK Medicines and Healthcare products
Dominic Raab: Resignation letter and Rishi Sunak's response in full  The deputy PM says he "feels duty bound to accept" the outcome of a report investigating bullying.  Dominic Raab has resigned as deputy prime minister and justice secretary after a report investigating bullying allegations was handed to the prime minister.  Here  is the letter he sent to Mr Johnson following the report's findings:  Sir, The cabinet office bullying report is published today. Having taken advice that it would be inappropriate to consider the wider issues raised in the report outside of this specific investigation, I have reviewed it very carefully.  Read more: Raab quits as prime minister orders investigation after report finds he bullied 20 people  "The conclusion of this bullying report is very clear. I am in no doubt that there have been failings in leadership by me and I recognise the need for some formal disciplinary measures," he said.  "I know that the Prime Minister wants to move on from this issue and I have agreed that the most sensible course for the country would be for me to step down as Deputy Prime Minister, a role that I have been proud to serve."  Rishi Sunak says he is grateful for Mr Raab's "dedication and service". He adds that he is not concerned about Mr Raab's future.  Read more: Dominic Raab resigns as deputy prime minister following report finding he bullied 20 staff  Dominic Raab says he regrets "falling short of the high standards that people deserve from their Government and, if I am candid, from me".  Read more: Raab: I did fall short of high standards, I am sorry  In a statement on Monday, the cabinet secretary said an investigation into complaints about Mr Raab had found he "bullied and belittled" 20 members of staff.  The report found he did not intentionally set out to bully people, but that he had behaved badly and should be formally disciplined.  Rishi Sunak said the report's findings were "extremely serious" and that "anyone who bullied staff on the way up or held back on their promotion because they were concerned about the consequences has let down our country".  "I am not in any doubt that Dominic Raab had bullied and belittled a number of civil servants in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office," Mr Raab's investigation found.  "These behaviours included belittling colleagues and being verbally abusive and humiliating and subjecting some to excessive workloads.  "He did not apologise for these behaviours and showed little sign of acceptance of his failings. The evidence clearly showed that he had not learned from his mistakes.  "His behaviour undermined the professionalism of the FCO and his colleagues and brought the FCO's reputation into disrepute."  The report said he would undergo training and "take action to improve" but would "undertake no formal disciplinary process".  Mr Raab said he was "sorry for those I have let down".  Read more: Raab apologises after report finds he bullied 20 people  Mr Raab has apologised for bullying 20 people, the government's watchdog says in a report published on Monday.  Cabinet Office Sue Gray has ruled that he bullied civil servants and the foreign office, in a report published on Monday.  The investigation was commissioned in April after former Foreign Secretary Liz Truss called for an investigation into Mr Raab's conduct.  But the findings will only now be made public after Mr Raab quit on Monday as deputy prime minister and justice secretary.  BBC political correspondent Joe Sommerlad says Mr Raab's resignation means he is "one of the last remaining defenders of the Prime Minister over the Partygate scandal", but is likely to be "a hard act to follow".  Former Conservative MP Simon Hoare told Radio 4's Today that it was a "serious situation" for the PM, saying there were "questions to be answered".  "If there is a serious complaint about a person that is deputy prime minister, who's a cabinet minister and who is a very close ally of the Prime Minister, the question has to be asked, if you know there is a complaint being made: what do you do?" he said.  The PM's official spokesman said that he and Mr Raab "had a conversation about it at the weekend and it was clear they were both seeking to get past the issues which have arisen around him".  He said: "The PM accepts the findings of the report and feels duty bound to accept that."  The spokesman did not address the question of when Mr Raab received the report.  He said: "In this respect, this is about the PM and the deputy prime minister agreeing it would be appropriate for the deputy prime minister to step down from the role.  "That, in the Prime Minister's mind, was the best way of moving forward and I think that's appropriate and a constructive decision by the two of them."  The report, ordered by Mr Raab himself when he was foreign secretary, found he bullied 20 civil servants from 2019 to 2021.  It said he had been responsible for creating "an environment of fear" but was not personally responsible for some of the more seriously troubling allegations against him.  Mr Raab said:
oronation: Met expresses 'regret' over arresting six anti-monarchy protester  A controversial new law, used to detain the group, is being criticised as too crude and too broad.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. Graham Smith from the Republic 's campaign group Republic says: The 1914 Act is very, very poorly targeted, it does not do what it is intended to do, it's never going to solve the problem.It is expected he will remain a guest of the Queen for the remainder of the Royal Family’s annual holiday, which is due to end on Tuesday.The Queen’s favourite family home is an elegant and historic building that was once home to a man called "The Devil" The Queen stayed at Balmoral for almost nine weeks each year, although 2022 is due to be slightly shorter.Image: Met officer involved in arresting anti-monarchy protesters at vigil for Sarah Everard.  Picture: BBC News.Image: Image: BBC News Image: Queen Elizabeth, Prince Charles, Prince William and Prince Harry during the Maundy Service at St Paul's Cathedral.We need to be focusing on all the other things that are making people angry and fearful of the monarchy, not wasting time on this.He says some protesters used the same excuse, they wanted to peacefully demonstrate and to protest, and the police have a legal obligation to take them to a police station for investigation.The Scottish Government has refused to renew the lease for The Queen's residence, known as Birkhall, which is less than a mile away from the Queen's Balmoral Estate in Braemar.So, he says the Met were obliged to charge them.He also said there was a "big, big difference" between his protests and those of the pro-monarchy people."On this occasion, in my view, the Met should have acted differently, and I am concerned that this approach is being duplicated in other incidents, where police have used this to take people to custody.Image: Anti-monarchy protesters at Parliament Square in London during the vigil for Sarah Everard.  " They added: "This is a very big, very important issue and this approach by the police is not getting anywhere.He added: "The Queen has been very gracious, she is extremely magnanimous, she has said to me I would really like to be able to keep the relationship we had before.They had only two staff to supervise their guests, but the Queen insisted they should be trained in first aid.We need people to have this conversation and find some answers." Image: Met officers arrest protesters holding a banner reading"Say her name" as they chant"no justice, no peace" outside London's Parliament Square.I think that's what I want to be.Picture: BBC News Image: The Met's deputy commissioner says the force wants to see the law change and wants protesters to be able to demonstrate peacefully." The monarch is not required to follow the Scottish Government's plans to cut funding for the house, and is known to be fiercely independent in her spending.The police are not involved in politics." Speaking ahead of Prince Philip's funeral this weekend, he said: "For me, it would be great to be able to sit down for lunch." Met officers arrested and detained six people in central London in the early hours of Monday morning.  But he says the new legislation is not helping and the force is having to use it in instances where it is not justified.Picture: Met Image: Met Image: The police commissioner for Scotland says he will keep in regular contact with the Queen.The Duke of Edinburgh’s funeral service is taking place on April 17 and will be followed by a private family committal service.Picture: Balmoral Palace.Picture: Image: A woman shouts "Say her name" outside Parliament Square.Image: Met Image: Met Image: A woman shouts"Say her name" outside Parliament Square.The royal family is not going to change in the future and is unlikely to be forced to open its books to show how it spends its money.  Picture: BBC News More:.The Queen's estate is thought to comprise of more than 50,000 hectares of land - the size of 10,000 football fields.
Sudan crisis: Shock and anger in Khartoum, a city not used to war  Residents say stray bullets and threatened neighbourhood sweeps by armed forces mean nowhere is safe.  People carry their belongings down a Khartoum street on Sunday  Khartoum city streets were mostly empty of people and traffic on Sunday, with both warring sides mounting  new campaigns to assert military control over major districts.  The government said it had recaptured some areas of Khartoum, but the Sudanese army on Saturday warned its fighters against allowing "opportunistic militias" to take control.  Residents had been fleeing neighbourhoods such as the twin neighbourhoods of Khartoum's Bahri and Omdurman districts on Saturday night in fear of attacks by government troops.  "It is only a matter of time"  In the Bahri district, residents said army special units, known as Rapid Support Forces, had fired mortars, tank shells and machine guns, but government troops had continued shelling residential areas and markets for much of the night.  A Sudanese soldier stands guard near an oil pipeline in northern Sudan's Al Qadarif State on April 27.  "We are at the end of the road. They are in charge of the whole city, they are taking over the country. It is only a matter of time. Our lives are ruined," said Mahmoud Mahmoud, a 38-year-old resident of Omdurman's Shangal neighbourhood.  One resident said he had spent three days and two nights in the bush after losing his home in the Omdurman city centre.  "Everywhere I went, I found bullet wounds, dead bodies, and a smell of burnt meat... I had to leave my family and escape," said Mahmoud, who did not want his last name used due to safety concerns.  'It's been chaos'  The two leaders have agreed to try to form a joint body to negotiate peace talks.  Khartoum's Bahri district's Omdurman Street was mostly empty of people and traffic on Sunday  The government and RSF have each accused the other of committing war crimes in the fighting, which they described as an armed rebellion.  The conflict has forced more than 10,000 refugees to flee to neighbouring South Sudan, many fleeing overnight, UNHCR figures show.  At least 500 people have been killed since fighting began on April 15, according to human rights monitors, with hundreds more injured.  Khartoum governor Khalid Al-Jazuli said the military had carried out a joint operation to clear areas in the north of the capital, but also warned against civilians carrying out sweeping operations in residential neighbourhoods.  "These groups need to be stopped. This is not the war on the streets," Jazuli was quoted as saying.  Sudan's government said it had captured more areas in Khartoum on Sunday, including Al-Nahda, which is about seven kilometres (four miles) north of the military airport.  A Sudanese army soldier carries a corpse after the bombing of a hospital in the Khartoum district of Bahri on Sunday.  'A black day'  Khartoum International Airport remains partially closed because the military and RSF continue to battle for control of the runway.  Sudan's military leadership accused the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces of killing six soldiers and a civilian in a "criminal assault" on a military base in central Omdurman.  The military vowed to retaliate against "criminal gangs" affiliated with the RSF.  On Saturday, the two rival generals agreed to stop fighting and form a joint body to push for a cessation of hostilities and begin negotiations to end a decades-long military standoff.  Sudan is still plagued by years of violence and political instability. There are fears that the current conflict could further destabilise the country.  In 1983, a conflict between the military and Islamists in Khartoum left more than 300,000 dead.  People try to retrieve belongings from a destroyed home in Khartoum on Sunday  The RSF leader, Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, called for an international investigation into the killing of a British aid worker on Friday.  Khartoum, the capital of Sudan, was the target of fierce fighting on Sunday, as a 10-day conflict entered a second week.  In the first 10 days of the fighting, at least 500 people have been killed and hundreds of others injured.  The violence began on April 15 after a power struggle between the military-dominated Council of Sovereignty and the RSF.  The fighting has forced more than 10,000 Sudanese refugees to flee neighbouring South Sudan, most fleeing overnight.
Smoking age should rise from 18, by one year every year - Rishi Sunak  Measure aims to ensure children of today would not be able to buy cigarettes in future.  The age at which people can buy cigarettes and tobacco in England should rise by one year every year so that eventually no-one can buy them  in shops, MPs were urged on Wednesday.The move would see the legal age rise from the current 18 to 21 over the next 10 years.  But MPs were told there could be potential knock-on effects for pubs if ministers act on the recommendation.MPs heard that 74,000 smokers aged 18 or 19 are prevented from buying cigarettes every week across the UK, with the figure growing to 130,000 by 2030 without a rise.  <strong>Rishi Sunak calls for age restriction on cigarette sales</strong>Chancellor calls for ban on sale of cigarettes and e-cigarettes from 2023  <strong>Rishi Sunak proposes further restrictions for people aged 18-21 who buy cigarettes</strong>Chancellor says raising legal age from 18 to 21 for purchasing cigarettes would reduce number of smokers by 11% by 2030  <strong>UK smokers urged to cut nicotine to avoid heart disease</strong>A third of all heart disease is thought to be linked to smoking  <strong>Rishi Sunak urged to raise legal age to buy cigarettes</strong>'If we do not act now, we will be failing our young people,' said Health Minister Gillian Keegan. And let's hope he acts on all the advice he takes. RishiSunak I wish he'd sort out the cost of living crisis too. RishiSunak All those poor underemployed kids on Universal Credit will be really really struggling when their 'employer' closes down to get more funding to pay for his mates 'family office'  <strong>The best travel accessories for 2023 - from a neck pillow to a travel blanket</strong>Here are our top travel accessories - from travel blankets to a pillow and some tech gadgets you need for when you're abroad. ✈️  <strong>This one device turns your iPhone into a fully fledged drone</strong>This one device turns your iPhone into a fully fledged drone – it’s called the DroneBox, and here’s everything you need to know. DroneBox  The government is considering introducing a 10-year ban on people aged 18 or 19 buying tobacco and e-cigarettes, it was revealed on Wednesday.The age at which people can buy cigarettes and tobacco in England should rise by one year every year so that eventually no-one can buy them in shops, MPs were urged on Wednesday.The government is considering introducing a 10-year ban on people aged 18 or 19 buying tobacco and e-cigarettes, it was revealed on Wednesday.Smoking is known to cause heart disease, lung disease and cancers.  The move would see the legal age rise from the current 18 to 21 over the next 10 years. But MPs were told there could be potential knock-on effects for pubs if ministers act on the recommendation. He said the proposal - put forward by former chief executives of Boots, The Co-operative Group and WHSmith - could reduce the number of people buying tobacco and e-cigarettes every year by 11% over the next decade. As reported by the PA news agency, Health Minister Gillian Keegan told the Commons Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee that the government was looking at the issue. The proposal from the government would reduce the number of smokers each year to around 8 million by 2030. She said the "biggest barrier" preventing people from quitting smoking is the difficulty in quitting on their own. But the committee heard that if the age of smoking increased to 21 it would reduce the number of smokers by 11% by 2030, from around 74,000 to 66,000."It's known to cause many different types of cancer and heart disease as well as lung disease and has been found to have an impact on the health of young people as they smoke more frequently than older smokers.  The committee's inquiry into public services highlighted rising consumption by 18- to 21-year-olds as well as concerns over a sharp increase in the number of people buying vaping products. Health Minister Gillian Keegan said: "I know that as a mother that’s why I’m backing this, because I want to protect my children and I want to give my children the best possible start. "I welcome and support the Treasury's commitment to introduce measures to reduce the purchase of tobacco and vaping products for people under the age of 21," said Mr Sunak, who said he did not personally support the measure but recognised that it would require consultation. The committee's report said that, "between 1992 and 2012, there was an estimated 25% rise in 18- to 21-year-olds smoking, while there was a 48% rise among under-18s. It added: "The consumption of vaping products among 18- to
hanel Metiers d'Art: Models turn Manchester street into a catwalk  Kristen Stewart and Hugh Grant are among the stars to cram into a Manchester street to watch the show.  Models used the road as a catwalk on Manchester's Thomas Street  Celebrities, models and several hundred global fashionistas crammed into a  northern British city Saturday to witness the Chanel couture show.  It marked the first-ever outing of the Chanel Metiers d'Art fashion shows, where the designer's creations are shown off in the cities that have inspired its various ranges.  And the city's first Chanel show was a sell-out with over 400 ticket holders, despite a strike across the north-west of England this weekend, reports said.  Manchester is just the latest stop for the high-profile event, which sees the German designer create exclusive outfits for the 50 people who will attend her show.  The clothes are inspired by the likes of the French novelist Flaubert and the New York architect Frank Lloyd Wright and, this season, the 27th-century space-age architect, Dame Zaha Hadid.  Earlier this week, a model turned into a "zombie" on the catwalk and another showed off some very special legs.  And in a bizarre show, a model wore a dress made of only 2,500 tiny Lego bricks.  It was a far cry from the Chanel runway, where models were clad in a variety of couture designs.  But all were stunned by a performance from the group that plays on the street.  The models took to the catwalk, with Kristen Stewart and Hugh Grant taking the lead, while others used the pavement as a catwalk.  But the show was not just about models; it was about a tribute to the designer, and to her creations.  The show, entitled "Metiers d'Art: The Future of Fashion," is a way to honour the designer's legacy, by showing the city where she lives and where she works.  This year, as part of the show, the models used the pavements and walkways of Manchester to show the world her designs.  For the first time ever, Manchester is the city which will host the first couture show of the fashion house.  The French luxury goods company has chosen the city as the site for the show to show off its designs, as well as its couture collection.  There was also an exhibition of work from the city's many artists, with some of the pieces on display.  The designer's creations were on display in a fashion show, but also on display on the streets in the city.  But despite the show being a tribute to the designer's talent, the city did not seem impressed, with some protesters saying it was a "waste of money", and others claiming it was an "outrage".  The show drew attention to the fact that the fashion industry and celebrities are both very much part of the designer's "art" business.  Chanel's Metiers d'Art collection, which has now become the flagship, is a collection that the brand has worked on for the past few years.  Metiers d'Art has had two previous seasons in London and three in Paris, but this year, for the first time, it will be held outside of France and will be held in the north-western city.  The show was held in Manchester's Thomas Street, a street that runs through the city and which runs from the city centre to the south-west.  It features a number of buildings in a similar style to the city centre's central business district, and it features both a historic building and the new hotel.  The venue is a perfect spot for a fashion show, and this show is the first time the fashion house will be using this type of venue.  In the past, Chanel's couture collection has always been held in the same venue, the Victoria & Albert Museum in London.  In London, the collection was held in the Royal Albert Hall.  The venue was also chosen because it was close to the London Underground, which made it the only place where the designer's collections could be showcased, said the brand.  In previous seasons, Chanel's collections were held in Paris and London, with the London collection being held in St Paul's Cathedral, but this year, the collection was held at Manchester Cathedral.  In Manchester, Chanel's Metiers d'Art show featured designs from past collections from the Chanel brand, as well how the latest creations would be adapted for its own.  The show is set in the city's Victorian gothic cathedral, and features an elegant facade.  It featured a variety of beautiful, modern and fashionable designs.  Chanel's couture collection, meanwhile, featured a variety
Deepest ever fish caught on camera off Japan  Scientists film a species of snailfish swimming at an extraordinary depth, breaking the current record.  This video can not be played To play this video you need to enable JavaScript in your browser. WATCH: Scientists film a species of snailfish swimming at an extraordinary depth, seen  on the bottom of Japan's Mariana Trench.  WATCH: Scientists film a species of snailfish swimming at an extraordinary depth, seen on the bottom of Japan's Mariana Trench. (Supplied: Tohoku Gakuin University)A species of snailfish is the deepest fish yet filmed in the Mariana Trench off Japan, scientists have revealed.  Snailfish! Sounds like a good movie! This one will be more of a mystery movie than fish movie! Is there any news of an investigation into this? Could this be just one of the aliens that the government has had contact with and were trying to cover up? 👽 Or perhaps just a new experiment in gene spiking and a possible new hybrid race? 🤷🏼‍♀️  And the winner is ...  Man, it's all going to hell in a hand-basket isn't it! All these movies have been warning us about for a long time and no one listened. They are going to get a shock one day  <strong>Japan's new government takes its seat in Parliament</strong>The new Japanese government is due to take its seat in the upper house of parliament. It can expect to be attacked by the opposition and called to account for its pledge to review past government actions relating to 70 years of Japanese-American military alliance. I want to know what he thinks about the Australian government. It just seems to me that it’s a very similar government. That's one very nice looking Prime Minister.  <strong>Japan's Prime Minister Kishida pledges to review the US-Japan military alliance</strong>Japan’s new Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, pledges to review the relationship with the United States during his speech at parliament on Tuesday. 'The alliance remains absolutely essential for the stability of Asia and the world at large.' Kishida was sworn in last week to replace Yoshihide Suga as Japan’s prime minister. Japan is an important US ally for obvious strategic reasons. But it's also an ally who needs the US to counter China's threat of invasion to Taiwan. If there is no US there is no Japan and vice versa. I'm tired of reading articles that focus on a US Japanese alliance. It is not the relationship I have come to know. We have a treaty of friendship but more than that Japan is a country that has developed a reputation in the US to do the right thing. We have allies in Europe and the Middle East. But we have friends in Japan and Australia.  <strong>Japan's Prime Minister Kishida pledges to review the US-Japan military alliance</strong>Japan's new Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, has pledged to review the relationship with the United States during his speech at parliament on Tuesday. Japan is an important US ally for obvious strategic reasons. But it's also an ally who needs the US to counter China's threat of invasion to Taiwan. If there is no US there is no Japan and vice versa. He said he wanted to 'improve the alliance' between the two allies, but it sounds like he's gonna review that too? Is there a war coming up with China in the pacific? This guy is a joke. Just say it is what it is.  <strong>Japan's Prime Minister Fumio Kishida says he will review US-Japan alliance</strong>Kishida will also focus on rebuilding the Japanese economy amid an economic downturn and a Covid-19 pandemic. The US has a very large fleet in Japan and Japan has spent billions of dollars improving those facilities. That’s not gonna help Japan as it’s a dependency of the US. The US is the only country that has ever attacked Japan. Not sure if they want to go there again...  <strong>Japan's new PM vows to maintain alliance with US as he reviews bilateral ties</strong>Japan's incoming Prime Minister, Fumio Kishida, promised to “strengthen” and “maintain” the country’s alliance with the US and review security issues during his speech at parliament.  <strong>Japanese fishing vessel with missing crew capsized and sunk in rough weather</strong>All of the 21 crew members onboard a Japanese fishing vessel that went missing with all crew members believed to have perished after it capsized in rough weather off Western Australia on Saturday afternoon are missing, with the search resuming on Monday.  <strong>Kishida to review alliance with the US</strong>He has vowed to take a "tough stance" against China in his address to parliament, which will precede a cabinet reshuffle that is expected to begin next week. They will never take a tough stance. It's not in their nature. Not sure that will ever happen. We already know that.  <strong>Japan's new PM Kishida pledges to review ties with US and China</strong>New Japanese Prime Minister Kishida Fumio's vow to review ties with China and the US is part of a "new approach", a foreign ministry official says. Why would any country review their alliance with the United States? This would mean the end of the free world.
Two Southampton nurses killed in crash near Grand Canyon  Friends Tatiana Brandão and Raquel Moreira died while on holiday together in the US.  Two NHS nurses have died in a car crash while on holiday together in the US.  It was reported they died in a crash involving a Jeep and a bus near the Grand Canyon,  but the police have said they are still trying to determine the circumstances.  Two nurses killed in a crash near Grand Canyon  Both nurses worked for the University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust.  Raquel Moreira was working in the emergency department at Royal Lancaster Infirmary while Tatiana Brandão worked as a staff nurse in critical care at Furness General Hospital, Barrow.  Both nurses are Portuguese nationals.  They were due to return home on Wednesday but were killed.  A memorial for the nurses was held at Furness General Hospital on Saturday, with tributes from colleagues.  Messages shared online said they will be "forever in our hearts".  Staff nurse Natasha Clarke shared a photo of a red rose and said: "I love you to the moon and back, my beautiful Raquel Moreira. You have always been there for me and have supported me."  The 20-year-old, a friend of the nurses, shared a post on Instagram in which she described her two friends as "my life", with a photo of Raquel and Tatiana in front of the Great Wall of China.  Morecambe Bay's medical director, Richard Fluskey, said the trust was "deeply saddened and profoundly shocked" by the news.  He added: "They both had a huge impact on their colleagues and the patients they cared for, particularly at a time when NHS staff are working so hard to look after the sickest of patients.  "All our thoughts and prayers are with their families and friends at this very difficult time."  Raquel, 28, from Fylde, and Tatiana, 34, from Penwortham, Lancs, were among 11 people killed in the crash which occurred at around 10:30 BST on Sunday near Page, Arizona.  The Navajo County Sheriff's Office said it was investigating.
School tutoring: One third of £594m post-lockdown cash unspent  Education experts say the national tutoring programme helped some pupils but could have reached more.  Ria says NTP tutoring has changed her learning but thousands of schools have not used the scheme this year  About one third of the £59 4 million government earmarked for the national tutoring programme (NTP) in 2020/21 has been unspent, despite 49,000 children receiving tutoring.  Education experts say many of the government’s £750m package of measures promised to help those disadvantaged by the pandemic – including the NTP – have yet to be fully rolled out.  The government’s own report, published on Friday, highlights that only 2,000 of 200,000 students from the most disadvantaged households were getting targeted help to catch up.  It also acknowledged that only 65% of the £594m allocated to the national tutoring programme has been spent.  Read more of this story...
Millions wait more than a fortnight to see a GP in England  The government has said it expects all patients needing a GP appointment to be seen within two weeks.  Nearly five million patients each month in England wait more than a fortnight for a GP appointment, NHS figures show, which Labour is calling "unacceptable".   It comes as health secretary Jeremy Hunt has said the number of GP practices in England is falling as retirements exceed recruitment.  The latest figures for March show there were 383 practices in England with a waiting time of more than two weeks to see a GP for the first time.  That was 307,000 patients - 12% more than in February and more than double the figure seen two years ago.  In all, 3.48 million patients waited more than two weeks to see a GP in England during March, compared with 430,000 in the same month two years ago.  In the March of this year, the worst performing area was Hampshire with 275 practices having a waiting time of more than two weeks to see a GP, followed by Gloucestershire (268) and Devon (259).  Labour said the figures were the "final nail in the coffin of the Conservatives' plan to reduce waiting times".  The Tories have been pushing GPs to do more to meet the two-week target.  The target has been in place since 2004.  The figures, published by NHS England show:  * The number of GP practices with waiting times exceeding the target in March increased by 36% on the number recorded in February * In total 9,500 GP practices met the two-week wait standard in March. It was down 11% on the previous month. * The number of practices with waiting times of over two weeks in March rose by 5,000 since last August.  Shadow health secretary Jon Ashworth said: "Jeremy Hunt's failure to keep patients waiting any longer for appointments shows that he is out of touch with the needs of our broken NHS.  "His plans will fail. Labour's reforms would deliver the urgent care patients need.  "A Labour government will put health care first, investing billions to put GP practices back at the heart of the NHS."  In a report in April by NHS England, GPs said that they were struggling with pressures on their time from a variety of sources.  However the report's author, Simon Stevens, said the vast majority of practices were able to meet the two-week wait target.  He said: "This is a complex issue - it takes time and skill to recruit and develop GP practice staff."  "The NHS is making real progress in meeting the target, with more than 95% of patients able to see a GP within two weeks.  "But GPs need support. GP practices are facing real pressure on their capacity to see patients due to a variety of pressures, such as demand and rising demand for long-term conditions like arthritis.  "We need to tackle this by investing more in GP training and giving GPs more support so they can keep pace with the growing need for their services, and help deliver the 2015 election commitment of an extra 8,000 GPs across the country."  GPs' response to patients has also been criticised recently.  Last month the Care Quality Commission criticised practices for not keeping patients waiting long periods in their surgery, including people in pain.  It said many patients were left waiting for up to 16 minutes in busy surgeries.
Welsh language: Lack of teachers threatens one million target  Warning getting a million Welsh speakers by 2050 requires many more teachers speaking the language.  Increasing the number of Welsh-medium teachers is a "challenge", the Welsh government says  Plans for a million Welsh speakers by 2050 will fail  if the number of teachers speaking the language does not rise, the Welsh government has warned.  Education Minister Kirsty Williams warned on Thursday there needed to be more Welsh-speaking teachers if the target was to be achieved.  The BBC reported at the weekend that the number of Welsh-speaking teachers had fallen by 4% since 2011.  The Welsh government said more funding would be made available to recruit the 700 teachers needed to make this happen.  Speaking during a visit to Ysgol Dinas Powys in south-east Wales, Ms Williams also promised to recruit 600 more teachers over the next five years in other areas of Wales.  She said the Welsh government was "absolutely committed" to the target of a million speakers by 2050, but added the target could only be achieved with more teachers.  Last year the BBC published research, which showed the number of teachers who were fluent speakers of Welsh had dropped by 4% - to 770 full-time equivalent teachers.  "The target of a million Welsh speakers in 2050 is aspirational but we also need a million teachers," Ms Williams said.  "I want to say that we will deliver on our commitment to recruit 600 additional teachers in Welsh medium schools over the next five years to ensure that there are Welsh speaking teachers in every single school in Wales."  "Recruiting more teachers is a challenge and we know that we are not the only education system facing this."  She added: "When you look at teachers who come out of university they are not all fluent speakers of Welsh. In the long-term we need to recruit and develop more Welsh speakers coming out of university."  'Urgent need'  Ms Williams also used her statement to launch a pilot project to attract more teachers into the Welsh language education system.  She said she hoped to recruit 60 new full-time equivalent teachers from within the community over the next year.  She said: "It's important that we give a priority to the recruiting of the additional Welsh language teachers over the next three years.  "This is an urgent need that I know will be supported by everyone who cares about Welsh language education in Wales."  Ms Williams said she would be recruiting teachers for the first time in 20 years in one school where there are no current staff with fluent Welsh speaking skills.  She described recruiting 600 teachers as a "significant challenge" and added: "As Minister I take full responsibility for that."  A spokesman for the Welsh government said there were now 750 full-time equivalent teachers of Welsh medium education, up from 732 in 2017.  It also said Welsh language schools, academies and nurseries had improved in recent years.  "Welsh language schools and establishments now account for 2.5% of Welsh language education establishments - the same as it was a year ago," the spokesman said.  "The Welsh government is also making available an additional £12m over the next three years to improve the quality of Welsh medium learning."  The latest Welsh government spending review shows there will be an average 9% increase in the budgets of Welsh language schools in each of the next three years.  A spokesperson for the Welsh Conservatives said the target for a million Welsh speakers by 2050 was "hugely ambitious" but the government was missing the target.  Education spokeswoman Laura Anne Jones said: "The Welsh government has a duty to ensure there are enough teachers in every school and the Welsh language is spoken in every classroom.  "These are not easy objectives and it is hard to know exactly how they will be achieved but we need to take a real look at our current situation and what we are doing to ensure our pupils learn the language.  "The Welsh language is a gift to our country and it will be a tragedy if one day it only ever spoke to a few hundred thousand people."  Source: https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-wales-43409305  #Welsh #language #Wales #News
